
kay, alright
no
hould i start? okay.
well, i was born in (city), (hospital) in, uh, (date). and i lived in (city) for about 4, 5, 4 years. and i have a sister named (name), and i have two, uh, i have my dad and my mom who are born, who were from (country), originally, and they migrated here. my sister is from (country), so she, uh, lived there for a short period of time, then she migrated, or she went with my parents to here, to (state), as well as a lot of my other relatives. i lived in (city) for 4 years, like i said. i, uh, went to a, uh, (religion) preschool for my preschool, which was i guess different because im (religion). so that, uh was a little weird, but i, uh. after preschool, i, we went from indianapolis to (city), migrating, we went to (city), i guess for better school, i guess the better, uh, school district. and um, for my first grade, i very, i was having a lot of trouble in first grade, and i was about to, i was on the verge of being placed in special education because i was having trouble being socializing and making friends. but i eventually, i actually, apparently had a sickness. i had, like, asthma or something which was causing me to have problems speaking as well as having a consistent health, healthy, i guess, like, uh, uh, like being healthy for a long period of time, was i guess, having trouble with my health. and, um, i guess i got involved to be more social. my parents got me involved more in sports, and like basketball and baseball. i got involved in more sports which helped me socialize and in 2nd and 3rd grade that really showed i was able to really get better in my health, in 4th grade too. and i was able to play basketball in 5th grade for my school which was really a turning point in my life, because i was able to do what i love, which is play sports, but i also saw an improvement in my education too. i was able to continue that, and then i kind of dropped basketball, and started playing tennis more. and thats like the sport ive been continuing to play until then, or now until the 7th grade. so ive been playing, uh, tennis for high school for 4 years. i was able to play varsity for 4 years, which gave me the opportunity to play here at (university). um, in high school, i was struggling in my freshmen year, which was i guess struggling with academics and athletics. and, i guess, i had time management issues, and i was able, and that was showing in my gpa. so thats something i had to improve on. so with my health and my family, my sister, uh, who was in college at the time was able to show me how you really organize your time, and she was able to be, like, a real mentor for me. after, uh, i guess, my freshmen year, my sophomore year, i was able to improve every single year, sophomore, junior, to senior year. and i was, uh, during my high school, i found, like, my passion for science. and through volunteering at hospitals and through internships i was actually able to see my goal is to become a physician. thats why i came to (university) to hopefully develop my science, my cognitive skills in science, and also play a sport that i love. so thats, i guess, thats my life story.
no i think thats it.
um, well, i think one experience, was i think my junior year of high school, so yeah two years ago. it was my dads, my dad had aortic valve replacement surgery. so that was, i guess, that was a struggling time, because, i guess, we relied on him so much for a lot of things, and it was, i guess, an eye opening thing because, i guess, i had to become more independent for myself. and i realized how i was dependent on my family so much, my parents, so it was more of like, not me, me, me all the time, and it was like stepping back and, like, taking care of my parents for once, which i wasnt used to. so, i guess, that was, uh, very different for me. 
yeah, aortic valve replacement surgery, yeah.
well, i guess, i was just shocked in the beginning because i was kind of unexpectedly, like i didnt know what was going to happen. so i guess i was more surprised than anything else. but i think i was able to handle it pretty well. i wasnt panicking or overreacting to anything, but i did know my responsibility was going to have to change, and my, uh, mental state, i guess, what i, the way i was living had change. so thats something, that i guess, uh, it was more of a surprise, but i felt like i was very calm during the experience.
think during, i guess, during, preparing for college with the sats and stuff, sats and final ap exams, that was pretty much, that was, like, a really stressful time for me because i was, like, so down to the wire. it was so, it was pretty much do or die for me. i had to make sure i got those right sat scores so i was able to get the right scholarship that i needed. so, was, uh, that was, uh, i guess that was a time, i was really, uh, stressed, and i think, now that i look back on it, i wasnt really handling it the right way, uh, because i wasnt really managing my time the right way, because i was just, uh, worried about that one thing, and was neglecting other parts of my life, like, i guess, like sports, and neglecting my family. because i just so focused on just this. and that was one of the more stressful moments, i think, times.
what caused the difficulties?
um, i think it was just change. like, it was going, it was just being so used to being the, uh, younger child, the, uh, younger kid in the family, so i was always being pampered and being the number one priority in everybodys mind. i guess, it was just a change in the mindset of having somebody else who needed the most attention, of somebody else who needed to be helped up and down the stairs every day, and just, who needed to be taken care of. that was, i guess, that was change is what made it most stressful, i guess.
um, uh, i would say, uh, that time made me more mature. so, um, i was able to take back and realize that this surgery wasnt for the worst. it was actually helping him live a better, healthier life. and, i guess, having that mindset made me realize that this isnt bad or anything, its just helping him live healthier. so that was, uh, kind of made it easier to think about.
um, you mean like a different kind of situation?
would say, yeah. i do realize that as my family does get older, as my parents do get older, there will be health problems on the way. same with relatives, aunts, uncles, brothers, sister, uh, i realize that people will have health problems and i just have to make sure that i, uh, do not neglect them. because i know, when i, especially when i was taking those sat scores, everything, i was neglecting my family and their health and everything, so i can imagine if any relative or anybody is having those health problems could be in the same situation as i was when my dad was having surgery and stuff.
kay
um, i guess what was different was normally i could just focus on i have to do this, i have to go to practice, and then i have to do my homework, and uh, study for tests. but i guess, what changed was, uh my schedule. i would have to go to practice, and then i would have to go to the hospital quickly just to  check on my dad and talk with him maybe for a couple of hours. so, i guess, managing my time. um, and doing the assignments, i guess, i thought was necessary instead of, i guess, just like, focusing, going, spending hours upon hours, and being, uh, perfectionist on every single thing, i was making sure i was efficient with my time. and that was something i think changed during that time. 
um, doing the same. i guess, the level of expectations for the grades i had was the same. my parents were like, even in the hospital, my dad was like you have to focus on your grades and making sure your grades are the same as what they were. so that was, i guess, the expectation for the grades i needed, were the same during that time.
h, what was different about them? um, i guess, i just didnt have a lot of time. i just didnt have a lot of time to spend with my friends. i, normally on the weekends, i would spend, i used to go to the movies or something, or go to the mall with my friends, but that really did not happen a lot during that time. so, i guess, i was just, uh, limited to talking to my friends at school or something, but other than that i didnt really have a lot of contact with them during, like, outside of school. so thats something that changed. 
guess, they just treated me the exact same as i was before even though they knew, some of my close friends knew my dad was having surgery. they didnt treat me any differently or didnt give me, like, sympathy or anything. they were just, like, treating me the way i was before, so i guess, that was what stayed the same. our relationship stayed the same. nothing changed that much.
what was different was i guess, i had a clear picture, i guess, i was normally just always just focused on school, and i thought school was the only thing i needed to focus on, education. and i guess i got a broader picture on life and how anything can change within a matter of seconds, so i guess, appreciating every moment of life was something that change in my life and changed after that surgery. so i guess thats something in my personality that changed.
guess, the way i treat people stayed that same. i tried to, like, even though my dad was in a hospital bed, and weak and everything, i still treated him the same way. i didnt treat him, i didnt like, over pamper him or just treat him like someone who is ill and cant do anything. i made sure, i, our relationship stayed the same. so thats something, i guess, stayed the same in my personality. 
ke the way i, is it cognition?
h, ok, uh.
um, i guess, i was more vulnerable at the time emotionally, i guess, during that time i was more sensitive to, like, how, uh, like, especially, like, uh, what we were talking about in biology class, i remember, like, in ap biology, we were talking about, i guess, diseases and stuff, or like cardiovascular disease and stuff, so that really, i guess, i was more like sensitive to those topics and whenever kids were talking about that kind of stuff it was like, i got really sensitive to those things. i think pretty much, my emotions were pretty similar, like same during that time.
um, i would say that, um, the way i was going about during school and going about during sports, i was the same emotionally. i wasnt breaking down or anything like that, and i was able to keep myself together during that time, and i wasnt really experiencing any moments of trauma or distress during that situation. so, thats pretty much what stayed the same, i guess, specifically. the way i was living, the way i was able to keep myself emotionally stable.
no.
think it controlled my life pretty significantly because i had to, i think as i said before, that i had to change my schedule a lot. so i had to spend a lot of time, um, sometime missing, like, periods of school during that time, like, maybe a day, or a class or two, just to go see, check out my dad after surgery or something. so, i guess, schedule changed significantly, um, uh, yeah, time, uh, there wasnt a lot of time i had free time. i used to have a lot of free time to do all, like i said, hang out with my friends, but that changed a lot. so, um, yeah, i guess, it changed in myself, change me emotionally, uh, like, changed me a lot of different ways.
um, i guess, the first part, i would admit the first part was traumatizing, my, uh, dad would have to spend so much time in the hospital, and that time, that was a little difficult for me to understand, but as i got used to the idea of how the surgery was supposed to help him, and how everyone was coming together, like different relatives from far away were coming together to make i wasnt alone in the situation, that made me more calm, and uh,  it was able to have a positive effect on me, so i wasnt worrying, uh, a lot during that time. so i wasnt too distressed during the situation. 
um, i would say, like, my mom was having, i guess, a little more trouble that most, like, than other, than my sister or i. we were both able to, i guess, having a calm personality were able to, i guess, bring down the level of stress our mom had, and i guess, we also took a lot more responsibility during that time. so during that, uh, so we were able to take over more duties my mom had to do, so i guess, she was having, i guess her stress levels were a little bit more reduced due to the level of responsibility we were both be able to take. 
um, i think at the beginning, my mom, uh, the way my mom was stressed out, really stressed me out too.  because, i guess, i didnt, knowing, because i was so young, i really didnt understand what the magnitude of the situation was. so my mom really had to, like, i guess, her worry, was my worry now, so i guess that was something that her stress was being placed on me too. so, i guess, that was something too. so, i guess relatives sometimes overreacting a little bit because they would have to come from far away just to see the surgery happen and i dont know, i guess, knowing that people were coming so far away just to see this made me actually worry too, i think. 
no, im good.
ee myself as hopefully, uh, an internal medicine physician. and i guess, my dads surgery did have an effect on me knowing doctors were able to prolong my dads life, and make him a healthier person, is what influences me to also treat patients and make them feel better too. so thats why thats an experience that influenced me to do what i want.
no.
okay so i was born in xxx (city name), bangladesh; april 25th, 1995.  i grew up there until i was about 9.  ive been to like all over southeast asia.  my dad would, for his job, he would go and he would take us so like throughout those years ive been to like thailand, malaysia, singapore, and then when i was 9 we decided to move to america.  my uncles fromlike my dads sidetheyre all here so we moved here to new york for like 2 weeks and then one of my uncles lived in xxx (town name), indiana so we moved there.  i went to elementary school there, enrolled in 3rd grade, and did schooling at xxx (town name) til about 5th grade and then my dad got a job at xxx (city name) so we moved here.  from 6th grade to now, ive been living here and thats about it.  i went to xxx (college name).  im going to xxx (same college name) right now and thats where we are.
yeah stress.  i would definitely get stressed out like by exams like finals time.  oh my god my grades are like in crisis and yeah that would be the stressful time for me.
lets see uh junior year of high school with my sats and just gpa.  i was fretting about which college i was going to go to like thats like the most important year of high school so that was like a stressful time.
nervous, really didnt know what i was going to do, tried my best to cope with the stress and thankfully i got through it so like just anxious.
yeah maybe like difficult times in the family, arguments; stuff like that.  that would probably be worse than school stress i guess.
what caused the difficulties? uh environment, definitely the situation i was put in.  thats a big part.  things didnt work out like how i wanted it to go so that caused a conflict which would create the stress.
o once i got through it we decided to go on vacation so that was relaxing *laughs* yeah so that kind of helped me feel confident that i was good to go for the next semester, the next year.
yeah moving to america.  that was uh i mean i didnt know what to expect.  that was nerve-wracking like i didnt know the culture or anything and like the first day of school here i was totally lost so that was pretty stressful.
ection iii: change
okay so junior year, yeah, like i learned how to better cope with it so like senior year i worked at kroger.  there would be customers all the time like during the week and it was really busy and going through stressful situations i learned how to better cope with the situation and not get stressed out or anxious by it so that helped me in that like my work there and my exams afterwards i learned how to better manage, like time management and all that.
yeah like i still get nervous during a biglike finals are coming up right now and i dont know like theres always that feeling.  thats when its going to stay the same.
i mean, stayed the same.  i mean i would get obviously a little bit stressed out but once again i learned from my pervious experiences so i cope better, i guess.
ection iv: social functioning
what stayed the same?  as in like my environment?
yeah so like my parents would always have my back like they would always support me so that was a big relief.  if i was going through tough times like they would help me understand, help me get through it so theres that.  i have friends that i could share going through tough times with.  they would help me out so yeah i definitely had people i could go to.
okay so like if i was like stressed out they would be like okay whats going on so their perspective would change.  they would be like oh so what is this kid going through and all that so like they would understand more about me from my experience. 
i mean i was still the same me i guess. my personality didnt change; its just learning how to handle the situation that changed.
what about the way you think and feel? (emotions)
o emotions uh can be nerve-wracking emotions; stressed out, nervous, anxious.  so right now what would stay the same is i would still feel anxious i guess like that part of my personality and thats not going to change.
well im a much more cautious person now like i make sure to plan everything out so i dont get into that situation again so thats what changed.  i learned how to handle things better.
ection v: degree of influence 
till talking about that time during your junior year when you were feeling a lot of stress; to what extent and in what ways did the stress you were experiencing control your life?
i mean i was like in this box basically.  id have to study for my sats.  id have to study for school.  i really didnt have that much freedom so like that caused me a narrow-minded mindset i guess so i was feeling kind of frustrated.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during this time of stress?
i would say average.  i would definitely get stressed out.  it wasnt like out of control so i would say but i definitely could have worked like there could have been better solutions to stressing out like i could have taken a break, just mental relaxation, but there definitely could have been better ways.
my parents, they would see me the most, so they would see like okay this kids stressed out so they would also feel the stress like theyll be stressed out over why im stressing out so that would change their mindset like okay whats going on and all that.  in school, like no one really noticed it so that was the same.
well othersokay i would see my friends.  oh i got a 2200 on the sat and i would be like oh okay.  i would be stressed out like okay i need to do well and so thats how others would influence me
well finish up college, my degree, and hopefully try to get into medical school and if all goes well hopefully become a radiologist and move on from there so yeah thats what i plan to see myself in 10 years probably.
k.
um, lets see i was born in december twenty fourth nineteen ninety two. to a family of four i was the fourth child to my mom and dad. um, lets see here. um, i lets see, some of my greatest or i guess better memories of my earlier age are kind of like traumatizing experiences i guess. one was, i want to say i was three or four maybe five, um i was in a pool, i was in florida swimming at a pool and um, i guess before uh, swimming but i, i guess i jumped in without having floaties on or anything like that and i did not know how to swim so my one of my memories is kind of like looking up and holding my hands up and i am like no idea what is going on and i see my uncle come over and he kind of jumped in and grabbed me, and all of that. so that, uh, is kind of like one of the memories that has always stuck with me from an earlier age. um, but um, lets see i was born into a loving family. um, mom and dad have always been real good to me. um, i was home schooled my whole life all the way through high school. um, i guess getting up every day in middle school and all the way through high school, getting up early to do school um, we, uh, had like a satellite um i guess curriculum. so it broadcast um, school into television and we would watch or, um our classes and we, it was kind of like in school but at the same time it was just at home there was a lot of christian schools that were the same broadcast with the same teacher, and they were able to communicate um through like kind of like phone calls to the teacher asking questions and such.  um, with us being at home we werent able to communicate with the teacher but we were still able to learn and email back and forth um, questions that we may have and it was still a great learning experience and there was a lot of flexibility um, doing school and with volunteering with different things um i guess that that was one of the biggest things with home schooling you could volunteer um a lot and do a lot of different thing while um still learning at a high rate. um, and i guess volunteering we would go to different like wheeler missions and um food banks package food for the homeless and stuff like that. 
um, lets see, um growing up a lot of, we had a lot different friends around that went to public school, it was kind of hard at first to kind of not really communicate but just  get on the same friendship base i guess since they are always at school and with their friends all the time and kind of like you know, after four maybe five oclock you  know we kind of hangout play basketball you know do different activities so i mean it was cool but at the same time um it was kind of hard so um that. um, lets see. played sports, um started playing competitive basketball probably in the sixth grade before that it was just for fun. i played a lot of different sports but not competitively just kind of on the side. and, basketball was my main focus as i got older and i would really work hard at it and um put a lot of time in to developing my skills in basketball sometimes more than it should have been. um, as i uh, uh, started putting more time and i started banking all of like um, what is it called um, like self-worth in basketball i guess, so, i kind of find um i guess um, i do not really know how to say it but it is like that is where i found my most joy i guess playing basketball. whenever you know i would get upset i would go outside and play basketball whenever um when different things happened i would go outside or just go to the gym and play basketball. um, and when i got older in high school like sophomore year i broke my collar bone, i was the starter on my high school basketball team and i broke my collar bone. um, right before state championship it was a home school league of twenty teams maybe and we had like a state championship and i broke my collar bone right before that, the state tournament. it was kind of hard watching my teammates go out and play um, mainly the younger freshman that kind of had to step up and fill in my roll. and they made some mistakes late in the championship game that um, that you know maybe if i was playing we would have won, maybe not i just think you know,  i think that i would not have made those mistake and um,  but um we did not win so you know.  dealing through the disappointment of having a you know the collar bone um, break and going through that surgery and then going to the state tournament and watching our team struggle out there and then we went  to nationals, did pretty well still could not quite um, you know do as well as we wanted to. junior year came back, um, did really well personally. um, our team won the state championship that year. um, i was able to play the whole year. and, um, senior year i had to go for surgery in my shoulder because of the result of the collar bone um, and that was difficult missing you know, over half my senior year. um, and going to st. louis and getting eight hour surgery on my shoulder and um, yeah it was just a hard time i kind of had to go through. um, but um, coming out of it, it was just kind of like everything happens for a purpose whatever that purpose may be. you know there is a reason behind it so i guess, you know, the moral of the story is through hard times, that  what i learned through hard time can only make you stronger if you look at it in that way. um, so that is kind of um, going through that surgery you know having therapy done on my shoulder you know strengthening that back up helped me realize that is kind of what i wanted to do when i got to college is be a physical therapist and that is what i am studying currently, um, at iupui right here. and that kind of opened my eyes you know i kind of want to help people get back from certain injuries and sports injuries that may of disappointed them um high school, later in life, um, the older they are you know maybe a hip replacement, trying to learn how to walk again you know stuff like that. so that has kind of helped me um, want to help them and um, i guess that is kind of where i am today, why i you know chose you know cause i did not know what i wanted to do in college until you know right before i applied which was you know, well i guess before i applied i did not know but i guess right before, um, i came here to college i did not know what i wanted to do um all of that so yeah. 
um, no not really, i think i may have answered your other one. 
yeah, i guess it was just the surgery that happened two years ago yeah. 
that was probably the hardest thing i had to go through yeah. 
think i was pretty up beat for the most, like as much as you could be. just knowing that i put in all the work you know the hours into basketball and then just like that you know taken away you know just by a you know i guess freak accident you know from the two years prior to that it was collar bone and then i got a blood clot in my shoulder and that had to get taken out so yeah. um mentally i was stable it was just a tough time, disappointment but i knew there had to be some type of reason for this you know, and physical therapy just popped out of know where. that is where i am at today so yeah.
um, no. i do not think so. i think that was the hardest. i mean it is not really that hard i guess but it was still a difficult time in my life. so yeah. 
um, just the just looking back, when i was in the hospital, i had to stay in a hospital for a week. and just reflecting back during that time while i was in the hospital, just the hours i put into trying to you know become a really good basketball player and i guess that was the most disappointing. if that answers your questions. um, yeah. 
t was just time really, um, i could not do anything physically straining for six months. and ever since i was a little kid i was always running around being stupid and crazy you know playing basketball and jumping all over the place whatever. and, i could not do any of that for six months and ever since then i have kind of toned down and kind of settled into being mature i guess. so yeah, um yeah. it was just time. 
n like would i be able to go through it? or. 
n yeah since i have been through it i can kind of imagine since i know what the feeling is so yeah i could probably yeah i could imagine something yeah.
um, yeah i guess i mean i am still alive so i can still walk so yeah i mean there are worse things than what i went through but i am glad it was just what i had and yeah i am still alive so yeah.
um, i do not know of anything stayed the same but i know what has changed is i have become more focused on like the real things in life. like basketball yeah it is awesome and all of that but there is bigger things to life than putting all of your time and energy into one thing. like um, i have become more focused with academics and all of that so i do not know if anything stayed the same maybe it is but i just do not but i am not like consciously aware about it.
um, lets see, i guess right after i got a lot of pity from different people for going, for having to have to go through that. but um, for a while you know i could not lift anything i was not allowed to you know even mow the lawn, you know or drive anywhere so i have to rely on different people to do that. so, i would say my relationship with my parents and family have gotten stronger since then. um, cause they were there for me. um, got closer with friends because of that, um yeah right, probably just that. 
um, i think being able to go through something like with not like um, severe disappointment, i was disappointed but it was not like a state of depression or anything like that. um, so, i was able to still see you know as much joy as i could in life going through that and i did not, yeah i guess that. and then um what has changed is probably just i have gotten a little more serious with um my life and you know what is going on with it. 
um, i guess just being more serious really and not taking everything so light hearted like i think that would be it. 
um, more sympathy towards people that are going through, um, you know broken arm, you know maybe um, you know some distraught in their life or something like that. 
um, i mean, like i did not have like a college degree goal in my mind like a career path before then so that was kind of i guess like a big life changing moment, um yeah.
t was, uh, stable, yeah i was able to control it throughout the whole time, um, i mean i people might find it weird. i mean i enjoyed the attention obviously; it was just going through the process. i mean not everybody gets to, i mean not gets to but, you know experiences the same thing and see the greater side of it i guess. um, and i was able to do that, so yeah. 
um, i am not sure, hopefully in a positive way. um, i know i have heard from family members, that like going through that and still seeing a smile on my face was um, was  beneficial to them, so. 
um, i had a lot of people come and visit me in the hospital. um, so that was, uh, positive family members being there. my mom would come early in the morning stay all day and then she would leave at night and then come back you know throughout the duration of the hospital visits. so that was very positive. getting different letters from people, emails, text messages. um, the support i had a pretty strong support group so that was pretty helpful. um, my pastor from my churches came, or my church came, so yeah.
um, right now just going through school and um, and then getting a job and trying to help people. um, going through hardships um related to injuries or um, movement, stuff like that, helping them, um you know while it may not be fun that they have it but there is you fight through it um there is like a better side to it all, um yeah.
no. i think that is it. 
k.
um i was born in 1995, i have brother that is ten years older than me and sister that is seven years older than me asnd i ggrew up[; in a small town in like central southern indiana.
y parents got divorced whenever i was in like first grade. and then my brother graduated high school when i was in second grade. i did not go to kindergarten so that put me like a year younger than everybody else in my grade. 
then my grandma lived next door do that was nice. um, my dad got remarried and i have a seven year old sister. um, my mom got remarried while i was at church camp.
nd, she moved and i had to move with her, and then my freshman year of high school i moved in with my dad. 
um, i was in cheerleading. 
was in track, sadd, national honor society, varsity club, and like all the different stuff in high school. um, graduated and decided to come here. 
ke a break down? no, not really.
n like it was definitely hard like whenever like for example whenever i had to move in with my mom and then moving back to my dads, and like just like there for a awhile just going back and forth so that was hard. and then deciding what are you doing for the rest of your life. 
ke, where to go to school and stuff, i mean that was really stressful. 
yeah, well yeah it was just deciding where to go to school was.
ke right now?
ne, i mean it was a little stressful but, i mean i had other stuff going on. but like i knew what i wanted to do and so i had it narrowed down. so it was not a big deal, it came down to like, what was going to be far enough, but not too far from home and financially what was going to be reasonable. 
n it was like a stressor but it was not a hard hardship.
um, not really. 
yeah, that was probably like the toughest. 
yeah, i mean, for the most part.
um, i do not think so.
um, i do not know. it was, i think it was more stressful moving between mom and dad than it was between like with school because with mom and dad it is like, moving with dad is like, i mean he is happy that i am there but it is not like a huge deal to him but it was a huge deal with mom in that i did not want to live with her. 
o i mean that was a little more stressful than moving to college. 
n it was kind of hard for me just because like i cared for them. and so like hurting them was like kind of hard for me.
n i had a good support system. i do not know, i am really close with my sister. 
nd my grandma. and i mean my family like, we all just kind of like live pretty close to each other. and i have good friends and was active in church so.
n, yeah i am sure there is much worse.
ke, right after i moved in with my dad i got a job, so like not only was i doing like all the activities at school, i was working. and then like i mean that kept me busy whereas when i came to college, i do not have a job up here so i just focus on going to school. so like i feel like i have like more down time, than i use to. 
yeah, like because i was use to being like busy because i would go to school early for meetings for clubs and then school all day and then i would have practice then i would go to work, then do homework and chores and stuff. so like i kept myself really busy whereas now it is like i am just going to school.
um. 
honestly i do not feel like i push myself as hard, as i did before, just because i have so much free time it is like, oh i will get to it later. and then it is like, oh i do not feel like doing it. whereas before it was this is the time i have to do it, i need to do it now. like, i do not know.
ke whenever i moved between like mom and dad?
um, not really, i mean i was always kind of a good student, but i know dad pushed me harder like mom was not like, it was not a big deal to her if i got a b in something, like oh you will do better next time, like no big deal. whereas dad was like you got an a- thats not good, like you need to do better, just because he was like i know what you are capable of, you need to put forth more effort, it is like it is an a-. so i had to work like a little bit harder, and once i moved with dad i was more busy and stuff. 
um, well where i grew up like i mean my family was all right there, like it was not far from school. like all my friends were like with like twenty minutes for the most part. whereas like whenever i moved with my mom she moved to the other end of the county, so it was like if she was mad at me she was like oh i am going to make you transfer schools or something like that and it is like i was not right there with my family and friends and stuff. whereas when i moved back with dad i was a couple blocks from where i had always been going to school and all my friends were around me and my grandma was like five minutes. 
yes. 
well i have like my core set of friends, so obviously i moved away from all of them but like still when i go home it is like i never left. and like i made friends up here so.
n, i am still social.
no, i mean, i went from like, cheering and being really involved in like high school, and then i worked in a local restaurant in my little town. so up here it is like i know a few people, but like the few people i know i do social things with. 
um, i do not know, i feel like, like whenever i was in high school and stuff i was more outgoing just because everybody knew everybody  and so like you just went and talked to everybody whereas now it is like i seem almost more introverted just because like i am not that person that wants to hang out with like twenty people at once or stuff like that.
um, i do not know.
n, i definitely like, i mean there was kind of a change like i was not, i do not know, i do not know how to describe it. 
was more like open, kind of like said more of what i felt and stuff, like whenever i moved with dad. 
just because like with mom, it was like is this, is what i say going to hurt her feels and stuff like that, and it dad it was like he did not really, like i guess he could take it better. like if i said something, like i do not know my mom and dad are just very different and my personality, because i spend a lot more time with my dads side of the family i have that personality  more than my moms side. so it is like, i am just a lot more like open and outgoing when i am with that side of the family than with my moms side of the family.
n i was more emotional, but i mean it was definitely more like, i mean that is the time when puberty hits and you grow up so that is probably part of it. 
n at that time, i am not really now as much as. but like during that time i would say yeah i was more emotional.
um, no not really.
ke intellectually? 
no, not really i mean i am more independent now so it is like you get to do more stuff on your own, whereas before i did not like to do stuff alone, like i do not like to stay at home alone for long periods of time and stuff like that, it is not like you get bored.
do not know, like i mean they kind of like altered everything. 
because i mean if you are in one place you are in one situation, and if you are in another place you are in another situation, is that what you mean?
n my life went down that path because of what i chose to do.
n i was young enough because i was like five, so i do not remember a lot of that. but, i mean i feel like i have pretty good control of my feelings.
um, i mean if i was upset or something, my friends were there for me and my family was there for me, but i feel like it did not like it was not like overbearing or anything, you know what i mean?
n i had people there for me at these times so it was always like comforting.
whereas if i had been completely alone i feel like it would have been a lot harder for me, but i always had somebody right there.
yes.
ke, what are my future plans? or like.
um, i do not know, right now i am kind of going between like my majors and stuff because it is like what i thought i really wanted to do like now i am starting to find out now i do not know if i really wanted to do it. and it is like the degree i am thinking of switching to they do not have it here so it is like well do i want to transfer and lose all my scholarships or do i stay here and pick something else. but i would still like to graduate within the next four years, so.
no.
k.
no. okay. so my earliest memories are from when we lived on the, theres this house, this little blue house, and i remember it. and, uh, back then we were, my dad was in the military and he just got out and so we didnt have a whole lot of money back then so we lived in a not good neighborhood. i remember that. and it was uh, but i remember that i was with my grandparents a lot too. like my grandparents, like my parents raised me, but my, i had a really close relationship with my moms uh parents and we, my grandpa was a huge influence in my life he got my started. i remember when i was like, i was only four years old and he was having me, like, hitting baseballs with a wiffle bat and that kind of stuff and we, uh, i was with him, with him every weekend from the time that i can remember i really had a, because of my grandpa, 
had a huge sports has always been a huge part of my life. and i remember when, after that we were building a new house, and we lived with a, we lived with, uh, my grandparents for that period of time where we, when we were there. and i remember when i was young and i, a big part of my life is uh, im uh big into church. i go to church uh three times a week and uh so. but my dad was, he didnt go to church any so and my mom did so she took me and we always i remember it was while we were staying in my grandparents house, my dad was, uh, he wasnt a really great guy back then, he was into to stuff he really shouldnt have been. he was a partier. and, uh, but then i remember, like, weme and my mom used to pray for him cause we all would stay in one room because we were in our grandparents house and i remember we would pray for him while he was there. i remember, uh, when he got saved and, uh, ever since then he like he has been a good dad ever since then. uh, so we moved there, we lived there for probably about three or four months because we were getting a house built. 
nd then we moved to the house i live in now and uh, ever, like, since we moved there weve been pretty good financially weve just been the typical middle class family, uh, and you know like uh, like a typical family we go to church, you know, and its been a huge part of our lives so ive always been, ever since i can remember, ive been at the same church since i was, i mean i, when i was born. as soon as i was out of the hospital that first sunday i was at church. and we uh, so uh i remember i got saved at that church. i, uh, most of my lifetime friends i met there. the friends i have now. and i went to, uh, and when i moved to, uh, my other house i went to uh, i started going to a to a christian school and i went to colonial christian school and that was uh, it was a good experience for me i got to play a lot of sports there and met some really good people. and uh, so uh, pretty much fromi went to the same school from kindergarten all the way until i graduated. so that was cool. so i got to know the same people my whole life so i had, i have a group of five friends who are, ive been close to ever since, ever since third grade is when we were all there. but, uh, at home i remember whenever i was about, i think i was about ten years old, we, uh, my parents were almost got a divorce. i remember that was, uh, traumatic time for me. i was, i wasi have to sisters and they didnt really realize what was going on, but i remember i did. and i know that because of me is the only reason my parents stay together, but now theyre happily married again so thats good.
nd, uh, lets seeand then, uh, aboutso i, the big part of me was i played sports for my school from six grade on i was pretty good at basketball, especially for christian school standards so from six grade on, ive been playing basketball and i got to play on the varsity team really young. and, uh, butand i was really big into little league to, what i was best at was baseball. but i remember that because of my religious beliefs that they started having baseball games on sundays, and, uh, because of that, coachand we, uh, i went to church then so i wouldnt go to the games around sundays because of that, i couldnt play baseball anymore. i remember that was a big deal for me because when i was there, i was one of the, i used to play on travel teams i was really, really good at baseball. and i used to play on travel teams and stuff, but they wouldnt let me play as much because i wouldnt do that so i had to completely change my focus from baseball to basketball because since i was at a christian school, they were more, uh, i didnt play on sundays and stuff. 
but when i was a, in thirdi think it was 5 or 6 years ago, uh my grandpa who was probably the biggest hero of my life, he, uh, he suddenly died out of nowhere that i knew of and uh, i remember that was a traumatic thing and i really, uh, caused me to question a lot of things that i held firm to believe in. my whole life, like about god and about everything else and, uh, i remember the same day that my grandpa died, my grandma almost died that day to because she was so depressed she wouldnt wake up and i remember that was probably one of the most traumatic things that has ever happened to me and it really, uh, at first it shook my faith a little bit, and it caused me to question, you know, why would this happen? but, then, uh through it, uh i was able toit grounded me in my faith even more and i found comfort in my faith that i had never found before because i never, before then i had never experienced anything hard. well, uh, around this same time that my, a little bit before my grandpa died, my dad decided that he was going to move from one business to another and he started selling insurance. and so because of that, my dad wasnt very good at selling insurance, so uh, it was only my mom who was working who was actually making money. so we had to move back in with my grandparents. and we stayed there for a long time and i that was uh, a tough year. and, uh, because i knew, i mean i knew we didnt have any money and it was, you know we were getting behind on all of our bills and everything. but because my dad took the, took that job he was later able to get a really good job somewhere else and ever since then, uh, weve been doing good. we dont have, i mean we dont live luxuriously or anything like that, but we have, uh, pretty good life as far as, um, monetary concerns and stuff. 
but uh, so, uh, my, after i graduated high school, which i loved--i had great friends, i went to a christian college, pensacola christian college. and, uh, i didnt like it there very much. i felt like it was ruled by a dictatorship and so it, i really hated it and it, that was a hard year for me because i had a girlfriend who id been with and it was really hard to be away from her and ive always been more of a homebody. i like to be at home. and, uh, so that made me not like it even more and like i thought they had ridiculous rules, like i couldnt wear shorts and its in florida. i couldnt wear shorts anywhere. i had to wear jeans, pants all the time and i, i mean it was just, everything about it i thought was a little ridiculous and everything i didnt like about christianity was there. but, uh, so i made it through there and while i was there, my dad, uh, the day i was going to leave, my pastor for, back then was eighteen years, he died that day i was going to leave. and i was, i go to a small church and so we all knew each other pretty well. so that was, uh, a pretty, that was pretty hard. and, uh, because that i couldnt be there for everyone whenever, and i had to leave that day. there was no choice in the matter so i left and, uh, so that was a hard year and you know, so the whole time im gone, my church didnt know what they were going to do. and then, uh, my dad, uh,.i think it was the end of the first semester, yeah he had decided that he was going to be the pastor of the church and, uh, ive seen what pastors families are treated like and pastors are treated like by church people and i didnt, i really didnt want that. and, uh, and also i was going to, i wasnt going to go to my church anymore i was going to go somewhere else once i got back for the summer, but because my dad, you know,  he said he was going to be pastor. so he wasso while i was there he got voted in and, uh, so i wasnt there for that, for with my family for any of that. so that was kind of hard because the school i went to, i didnt get any breaks. not even for thanksgiving. no breaks at all until christmas. so i wasnt with my family at all. so that was kind of hard because thats a huge major life changing thing when hes going from a really good job where he gets paid very well, has great benefits, to pastor of a small, country church, with you know making about half as much money, but thats what he felt like he was supposed to do. so he did. so now hes working that job and another job so we can still have a pretty good life. my mom has to work too. but because he has done that, i actually enjoy going to church again, hes really good at what he does.
nd, uh, so i really, so hes been, so but because of his growth as a man, hes, uh, ive seen him from where he was, to where he is now, and hes a completely different person. hes a great dad. hes a great friend to me and hes helped me out a lot. and if it wasnt for him, i would, you know, i would have been, i was heading down the different road where, and he helped me to realize, uh, that i didnt have to live certain ways and that i didnt have regrets like he had, so he helped me out a lot with that. and, uh, another major thing that happened in my life was when my grandpa died, my grandma came in. she moved in with us because we moved back into our old house after my dad got the new job, i forgot to say that earlier. but uh, so my grandma got to move in with us now right. around the same time my grandpa died, she had a stroke that was really, really bad. we thought she was going to die. that was around the same as that. and i was really close to her, like, she was like my second mom. so that was really hard and because she had a stroke, stroke victims, when after they have the stroke their not the same person, and she, uh, went a little bit, i mean she just went crazy for a long time. like, she was erratic with her behavior and, you know, we were responsible for her. so that was pretty tough having to deal with that. but, uh, she eventually, uh, has gotten better. shes not one hundred percent better yet, but shes a lot better than what she was, and shes not crazy anymore. so thats good, but after i went through a year at pensacola, i was going to be a pharmacy major, but then i wanted to stay at home, and i didnt want to go to school for 6 years. 
o i decided i would just go to iupui and do nursing so thats the chapter of life of then and now. so far i love it, i lovei really like everything about iupui. ive had good teachers and good experiences. im doing well in all my classes. im getting a lot of, you know, theres a lot of resources here to help and thats really helpful. and, uh, so then this year has been a big year of growth for me as far as ive been working and going to school. you know, paying for everything myself. so its helped me realize the importance of responsibility and that kind of stuff and so far im just, the main thing right now that im focused on is getting into the nursing program which is tough, but so far i think im going to do alright with that, but. i guess i would say thats pretty much the story of my life. so thats it.
yes. there was two instances that happened. i think its been a year since it happened. this last year. uh, the first incident was, it was on national news. the high school i went to, i was graduated, but my girlfriendsmy girlfriend graduated to, but her family was on the bust crash at colonial christian school that, uh, injured many people and that three people died one was a baby, died as well. so since my girlfriends family was there, you know, i went over there and helped out as much as i could, you know, and my girlfriends best friend, one of her best friends, her mom is one of the ones who passed away and i knew her mom, and i was friends with her so that was really tough and, uh, their new youth leader, i didnt know him very well, i knew the older one, but i, his wife, she was almost to the point, i think she was nine months pregnant, so it was like, not like a young baby, it was going to be born and be fine, but it died. so that was really tough because i had a lot of friends on there, uh, who really were going through some hard times and that was tough because, uh, i mean anytime young people die, i mean the couple was like three years out of college, and they had one kid already born who thats been the whole ordeal, you know, and one of my real good friends from high school, that was his brother who died. so that was a pretty traumatic experience, but it was cool to see how everyone came through, and, uh, you know, uh, as a christian you have something that you can lean on and that kind of thing, and it was really evident and it was a good opportunity to let people know about our faith and about jesus and that kind of stuff. so that was really, um, it was a bad experience, but some good things came out of it. and then very recently we had a really bad rainy season here, and where we go to church the roads flood sometimes. we went around a different way, but my grandma, who, shes had a stroke and she only has one hand thats available to drive, but she can drive alright, but, uh, there was a flood and they didnt close the road and the roads are completely flooded over. so she was driving and it was over a hill and she went down the hill, and she hit the, she hit the flooded road and she went off into, into a creek, and it almost completely submerged hershe was in a durango, which is a big car, it almost completely submerged and only her drivers side window was up. and it was probably around 30 degrees out, 32 degrees outside, so she was in frozen, i mean, you know, freezing level waters, but so this lady called, my uncle called me, and he said theyve blocked the road now and i cant get to her, but i was in 5 to 10 minutes of her so me and my mom and, uh, another guy from my church, uh, went in and we were at church, and went in to go get her, and, uh, all we heard was that she was in a ditch. and, uh, so we just figured, i figured we are just going to have to go push her out. well we didnt know that, it was as flooded as bad as it was, but we went a different way to church, and we get there, and shed been in freezing water for 20 minutes. there was fire fighters there, but none of them had gone in yet. they did manage to get a rope around her, but they were all just kind of walking around, and she was, i mean, she was at the point where she could have got hypothermia because she was in there so long and the water was so cold. and, uh, so i was the first one there and i just wasnt expecting to see it as bad as it was, and it was probably the scariest thing i have ever seen because i mean she, uh, she would have had to stand up on her dash, just to be able to get out of the water and she ones was only out from like, about mid torso. and, uh, and she only has one hand so, that works well, and the other hand, and it was getting frozen, the other, the one that doesnt work well is, extreme, uh, it cant move itit feels pain, uh, really bad so she was really complaining about that, and i was extremely, i was very worried and, uh, i was mad because there, the responders had been there for 10 of the 15 minutes that she was there and they hadnt gone in and done anything yet, and i was getting really irritated. that was a stressful situation. my mom was freaking out a little bit. and, uh, they had just put a ladder in the water, and all of a sudden the car gave way and started to go under and she started to go under, but luckily the one guy had a rope around her and he pulled her up and got her out of there, but she was frozen, i mean she was really cold, so that was, and she had to go to the hospital, but thankfully there was no lasting injuries from it. so that was probably the most traumatic thing thats happened to me in the last year so.
was very mad would be probably the biggest thing, because i felt like the people who, i mean we pay for them to betheir job is to rescue people and they were just walking around, werent in a hurry, kind of just talking to each other and i was really mad about that, and i remember i was, i was getting a little bit irate with people because they werent, i mean that was my grandma in there, i loved her, and i dont know what i would do without her and she was in there freezing, you know telling us how cold she is and how she can barely feel her hands and her feet and stuff. so that, i was really mad, you know scared because there was a couple times where the car started to shake and they hadnt got the ladder in there yet and all they had was a rope around her, and if she would have got caught in the car, i mean the guy cant hold up a car. so i was scared, you know, i was worried, but mostly i was just really mad because they werent doing their job and that, it just, some of the, i dont know what they were doing, they just werent doing what they were supposed to be doing at least how i felt so.
well, yeah, the worst moment of my life was when my grandpa died. they told me he went to the hospital, but he had gone to the hospital a few times for some minor, and then all of a sudden, i remember i was just sitting down watching t.v., and it was late at night and i get a call and my grandpa passed away. and like i said he was one of my heroes. he taught me everything i knew about sports and i lived with him on and off my whole life, and uh, so that was really traumatic and to make matters worse, so it was that night that he died, so we were all out at their house at the time, and then so we go to wake up my grandma and she wouldnt wake up. i mean we were getting to the point where were pouring water on her, slapping her hard, and she wouldnt wake up and i remember being so worried because not only one grandparent died, but i thought my other grandparent was going to die in same day that, the two people that was close to me beside my parents, i thought she was going to die that same day. so i remember i was so worried about it that i actually threw up and that was pretty, it was a pretty traumatic experience. luckily she woke up, finally, but she had to go, i mean they had paramedics there and that was a really, that was probably the most, that was the worst time thats ever been in my life was that right there. 
uh, well i mean, i guess the biggest thing was worrying about living life without her would have been tough because she lives with me now. and uh, while she can be a little grating sometimes because she doesnt always understand things as well because of the stroke, but i still, uh, loved her, and you know thinking about the pain that she was in while she was down there. and, uh, the fact that i was worried that she was going to die and that i have to live without her, thats uh, i didnt want to because i remember what it felt like losing one grandparent that i was close to. so it brought back feelings like that, and you know i didnt want to lose another grandparent. so that was what i was probably most afraid of was i just didnt want to live without her and lose another grandparent, so.
uh, well i mean it helped that she was okay after so i mean she was fine and she was kind of joking about it, you know like, saying stuff like good thing i wore my pretty underwear today whenever the ambulance got her so she was completely fine because i was worried because of all the health problems that shes had that it was going to cause her to even be more mentally impaired i guess, but she was 100% okay and thats good. and then, uh, my family was all there and, uh, my church family was there, my girlfriend was there, and they were all giving me, i dont know, like a helping me, and you know this, but people around me really helped and you know. and my faith helped me a lot too, i could lean, you know, on god, you know and that kind of stuff so those kind of things really helped me throughout that situation. 
uh, i mean shes put us through a few scares like this with car accidents so, and they were all freak things that werent even her fault, but so its happened multiple times, so i mean i can imagine it happening again, but i mean the only thing that i could say that would be worse than that is if something happened to my parents, or my sisters. that would be bad, you know, both of them, but i mean if something happened to someone else in my family that would be the only thing that would probably be, have a similar type, make me have a similar type of reaction.
uh, as far as school and work, everything has pretty much stayed the same, i mean i think i have recovered fully from it, i mean when i think about it, i dont like having that picture in my mind so im more of the kind of guy who doesnt think about the type of things that bad happens. i kind of just try to smooth past them. and, uh, but as far as school and work, everything is pretty much that same. i still work the same and i still do the same amount of studies. so everything about those are the same.
uh, with my girlfriend, the two traumatic experience with the bus crash and the, and my grandma, uh, they brought us closer together because we both, we were able to be there for each other and we got to see the side of them you know, i got to see a side of her that she was really caring for me and helping, and that she got to see a similar side with me. as far as, like, now i get a, uh, i do find myself, uh when my grandmas gone a little bit longer then she was supposed to be, i find myself worrying. i mean, you know, ill usually just, ill usually give her a call and, or you know, she where shes at because i just, im just worried that you know something similar will happen to her again. so i dont really, so thats whats probably changed. as far as socially, with my family, i think that it made me, uh, appreciate her a little bit more, too, because i have the thought of living without her and it made me appreciate her more and get less irritated with her little things that she does that are kind of annoying. so its helped my relationship with her, thats whats changed, but i mean, but other than that, everything else has been pretty much the same in my life, so.
nterview: and how about your personality? what stayed the same and whats different since that point?
uh, thei think, i mean because itif it would have turned out differently i think it would have altered my personality more than it did. so im pretty much the same person that i was before and after. nothing has really changed except for the fact that i worry more about her, about her when she drives and stuff, and i, you know, and i try to be, you know, more understanding and more patient person because of it becauseand you know try to make myself relish time because i know she cant be here forever. so just relish time that i have with her. so make me more of a, i dont know, just understanding, patient person.
nterview: and how about with your cognitions or the way you think or your emotions? what has stayed the same, and what is different?
uh, as far as my thinking and my emotions, i think everything is pretty much, like i said because it didnt turn out bad, i ended up being just fine. i pretty much stayed the same as i was before.
nterview: and to what extent, and to what ways, do you feel like this hardship controlled your life?
uh, well in the moment, it made me very angry and usually im a very calm, uh, chill person who doesnt, i dont, im not an emotional person at all i just usually let things roll off my back and i dont, i dont get mad or cry or sad or anything that easy, but in the moment, it really made me get very, extremely mad at people who i thought were making my grandma worse off than they were. so that really made me, it made me my emotionsit made me more mad than i usually get so thats probably the only thing it really did. it was making me mad and worried.
well, uh, i didnt do anything that was rash. now i did, i was going to go in there and get her, but someone wouldntthey wouldnt, they, you know, were doing everything they could to not let me do that. so whether or not that was a rash decision, i dont know because i feel like someone should have been in there and i could swim and im pretty tall so i could have gotten in there and helped her some. but so, i mean i was going to do that. i dont know if it was a bad decision, but if i could do it over i would have just jumped in there got her again. i wouldnt have even said anything about it. i would have just done it. so thats what, yeah.
well, uh, i tried towhenever my grandma could see me, i tried to act like everything was ok for her, but there was a couple times when she saw me getting mad and you know upset, and that kind of made her worry a little bit more. you know, i had to go, my mom was there and she started really crying and, you know, kind of freaking out a little bit, so i was trying to be there to help her and, uh, do that, so. i mean otheri think i helped my mom stay calm, and i tried to help my grandma stay calm, too, even though i was not as calm as i should have been, i tried to at least when they were around to be calm. so, yeah.
the fire fighters and the ambulance really, they really took me off with what they were doing. so they made me mad. there was a guy there from my church, he tried to calm me down a little bit and he did do a pretty good job at it. and, uh, my grandma, you know, seeing her obviously is the whole reason i was so worried in the first place. so she caused me to be worried. and my mom, i and you know, i was just really trying toshe didnt really affect my behavior that much. but the main people who affected my behavior were the emergency responders. so i didnt feel like they were doing what they were supposed to be doing.
you mean like because of this? well, uh, what i would like to do is finish nursing school here, get a good nursing job, and i would like to get marriedwhen i have a family and be a dad and a good husband so i want to do that. and eventually my end goal is to be a, get my nurse practitioners, be a nurse practitioner. and just a bebe able to give a good life for my kids and to, you know to be a good church member and serve my church and be a good christian and to be a witness to other people. so thats what i, thats what i foresee in my life.
no.

i lived in one house for my entire life.  its a 3 story blue and yellow house.  my family, before me, used to live in a couple different houses but i never lived in them and then ever since ive been growing up learning basketball cause my dad is a basketball coach at a middle school and my brother played basketball.  ive always grown up playing the game of basketball, ever since i was in like 1st grade.  ive played xxx (traveling sports league name), competitive and for fun and then i madei played on the high school team my junior and senior year for varsity.  then i dont know thats about it with basketball.  everything else, i mean, i dont really have much about me.
my brothers married and hes 28 years old now.  i was the best man at his wedding and so that was pretty cool to see him get married.  it was a good time.  i dont really have much else.
it was probably when we lost in sectionals for basketball because that was a part of my life for my entire life and then it was just taken away cause i wasnt going to play in college so it was like a part of me was gone.  in about a couple weeks i felt depressed and nothing happened but after that i got over it and felt okay.  i mean like with deaths in the family the same thing happens.  with my grandma and grandpa, they both passed, and then i felt down.
yeah. 
i mean id feel sad but i have friends and family who try to cheer me up and i dont know.  i try to look at the bright sides of things and god; theres a plan for everything, and stuff like that.  it doesnt get to me that much.  well, it doesnt really bring me down that much to where i think about doing something foolish or stupid.
no.
this being with whatever it was for so long and then it just suddenly is gone.  its like taken away from you and you dont know how to cope with it.  you dont know what to do and youve pretty much got to come up with a plan or whatever to get through it.
i just thought that i was like im still going to play the game and then with family i was like people die; it happens.  its a thing of life and just remembered all the good times we shared and stuff like that.
yeah i could see like a friend or one of my parents, if they get sick or pass, then i would be even more emotionally distraught but thats about it.  thats the only couple of things i can see happen.
ection iii: change
well whats stayed the same is my will to win pretty much like i want to do my best still and continue to be successful rather than just dropping off.  whats differenti dont know.  i guess just more prayers for family. 
just stayed the same is how i treat them.  i wont treat them any less and if anything ill treat them better.  whats different is i dont know, just sometimes whenever im thinking about it and ill tell them and then theyll comfort me and then ill be okay from there.
im definitely outgoing and ill talk to anybody, make new friends, doesnt matter who you are i would talk to you.  i trust everyone until they give me a reason not to.  theres really not anything different about my personality.  im still really happy all the time. 
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)? whats stayed the same?  whats different? 
well it makes me realize more that things all come to an end but im not going to let that affect me.  its just live your live to the fullest and its pretty much what ive gone by.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?
its just tough to see my dad go through that and then realizing that could happen to me.  its just tough but things happen.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time of crisis?
i was able to control it pretty well.  i just felti was sad of course, but i was able to keep myself calm to where i wouldnt do anything too drastic.
well my girlfriend felt down because i was down but she helped me through that and my parents were pretty sad too cause it affected them as well cause it wasnt just me so they were all upset but they were all comforting me and helping me get through it and then they were fine as well.
they helped me.  they were telling me that everything will be okay and that things just happen like this and its cruel but well get over it.  well be alright and just i dont know; pep talks.  
uccess.  thats all i see is a bright future cause im going to keep working hard and no matter what happens in life ill just continue to work hard and be successful for myself and thats all i can control.
o i was born in xxx (town name), indiana.  we lived in a trailer for i think like 3 weeks and then when i was 3 weeks old we moved to xxx (town name), indiana.  that was, i think, like an hour and a half from where we were.  its like 20 minutes from where both my parents grew up in xxx (town name) so we were like 5 minutes from my grandparents in our new house and so for like 2 months we lived in their house with them until we got the house all ready.  then we moved into my house on xxx (street name).  we lived therewell i still live there i guess.  i went to xxx (elementary school name) in xxx (town name) for kindergarten through 4th grade, then xxx (middle school name) from 5th through 8th grade, and then xxx (high school name) 9th through 12th grade.
played peewee football, peewee soccer, baseball, and i swam in elementary school then in middle school i played football, soccer, and i ran track for 3 years.  in high school i played soccer and ran track and then i was also in marching band for 6 years.  i was a section leader 8th grade through junior year and then my senior year i was a drum major.  i was basically a straight a student other than freshman year.  first semester i failed biology cause i wasnt in the mindset of school yet so that happened and then i always dreamed of going to xxx (college name).  i got denied from xxx (college name) because i wanted to go pre-pt and i guess thats really tough there so i came to xxx (college name).  
ne in an apartment by myself.  it gets pretty lonely sometimes.  i play a lot of video games to keep myself not bored.  i do my homework.  schools pretty tough here.  math-m119 is pretty difficult.  im a sports management major but im looking to switch it to a double major in accounting also so hopefully that works out.  i like to either work in accounting for a sports office or go to graduate school and get my phd in sport law.  im pretty good with my hands.  i resided our house with my grandfather.  i built our fence.  i repainted the garage so i guess im pretty useful.  thats about it.
ection ii
my entire family went to xxx (college name) and so that was like my dream.  xxx (college name), like when i learned what college was, xxx (college name) was the college so i was really devastated when i got denied and then i reapplied and got denied again so i kind of lost faith in my schooling and i considered not going to college.  then i dont know im still in the mindset im not really good at school so i dont really try that hard in college and its biting me so i just guess i need to work harder but its kind of heartbreaking to not be at xxx (college name) when my whole family was there and i have family there now so it would have been nice but i guess thats alright.
i guess i just didnt try hard at anything.  it was during track season so i just didnt work hard at it.  i lost every single race.  i didnt feel like doing anything.  im getting out of that now but i still sometimes feel like not doing anything cause it just doesnt feel like its worth it.
i dont believe i have.  i mean ive been pretty confident with myself all through school and then so that was kind of a slap in the face cause i never expected it to happen.
well since it was pre-pt the first thing i applied for, failing biology freshman year definitely didnt help but i retook it my sophomore year and got an a+ so i never understood really why.  i had the proper sat scores and everything so i just dont really know what contributed to it.  i guess it was just wrong applicant at the wrong time and so yeah. 
just time.  i think making friends here has helped because i realized that xxx (college name) isnt the only school like i had that before but i just always had the dream of going to xxx (college name), making friends, living in a dorm, so everythings a lot different here but definitely making friends has got me out of the slump.
not really.  i mean if i somehow got removed from this university i probably would be really devastated but thats about it.
ection iii: change
well i realized that i didnt want to major in what i planned on majoring in.  i completely switched my mindset about it cause i figured thats what was wrong and its going pretty good now so i guess.
i still kind of want to be at xxx (college name) but i mean im really loving xxx (college name) so i guess thats what stayed the same is that there will always be a part of me that wants to graduate from xxx (college name) and ill always consider transferring but at the same time i know that i wont cause i like it here.
i mean i guess my work ethic kind of dropped a little bit.  i just dont work as hard anymore cause what i was working towards all through school was taken away so it just seems like if you work hard, nothing comes out of it, but now that im in college and i realize that im working towards a degree that thats not the case and working hard is important.
actually, im not friends with a lot of my old friends from high school cause they went to xxx (college name) and its not as much like im jealous.  i just dont talk to them anymore cause theyre an hour away and i have new friends here.  i was surprised that my family wasnt disappointed in me.  both my parents were kind of happy.  they didnt think xxx (college name) was the right place for me.  they thought it was too big of a school cause im from a small town so they thought that a smaller school would be better, less people, so i guess my relationships are great.  i still talk to my old friends.  theyre just not my best friends anymore.
i get kind of bitter when people mention xxx (college name), like xxx (college name) football games.  theyre like oh were going to go to the football game like thats awesome.  i wish i could do that so i guess i just i dont know.  i guess i get jealous a little bit but i mean for the most part im still pretty happy with life.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  whats stayed the same?  whats different?
i mean i get stressed a lot more than i used to cause i realized how important certain things are and i get angry when i dont do well at certain things cause before i used to just be like okay ill get it next time.  now i realize that sometimes there isnt a next time for tests and things so i get really mad at myself because ive already faced defeat, i guess, so its just i know what it takes.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?
im not going to xxx (college name) so ill have a red and white diploma instead of a black and gold one.  i changed my major, which turned out for the better cause now that i think about it i know that i dont want to be a physical therapist.  thatd be so stressful all the time so i think things changed for the better by getting denied but i guess ill never know.
well i knew that i could go anywhere if i applied like if i just set towards that goal but i had friends that were supposed to come here so we had to plan to live together and stuff.  that didnt work out and then i actually had never heard of xxx (college name) until near the end of my senior year and then it just seems kind of like fate since i never heard of xxx (college name) before.  i never considered it and then all of a sudden im here and im loving every minute of it.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time of crisis?
i was stressed a lot cause i didnt have a backup plan cause i just never in my life did i ever consider not going to xxx (college name) so i didnt have a backup plan with school so i got very stressed after that cause it was the third term of my senior year so i knew that it was crunch time and things were going to start happening very quickly cause i didnt have a school that i was going to.  i knew that i didnt want to stay home and go to school cause i just didnt want to live at home anymore so yeah.
well since i got stressed a lot i started stressing my mom out because she tried to keep it cool and tell me that everything was going to work out the way it was but the more i talked about iti dont think she was getting stressed.  i think she was just getting annoyed by me so i was just kind of a burden i guess.
i dont know like she never got mad at me.  she justyou could tell she was just like apply to a school and get your confidence back up.  thats what she told me to do and so i did and it just.  i dont know.  my sister was always trying to tell me what to do cause she already graduated from college so she was trying to help me out and so she put a lot of things aside to help me with that.
well my friends were very supportive with it cause some of them also got denied from the schools they wanted to go to so they understood and then it really helped to know that my friend xxx (first name) was going to the same school that i planned on going to.  that made it easier and he was a good support cause hes my best friend so that really helped out a lot.
i think they made it easier.  no one really made it more difficult than what it already was.  my teachers were really supportive, so was my family.  they all helped me look for schools.  they actually planned college visits without me knowing and they would take me and so it was really helpful.  it was a lot better than having to do it alone.
hopefully graduating college.  i know that if i stay here itll probably make my parents proud because i graduated i guess.  i mean they went to college so its not one of those stories but i mean hopefully i just get a good job in something that i love to do.  i think thats it.
i was born in xxx (town name), illinois, which is a suburb of xxx (city name), illinois which is where the university of illinois is.  my dad works for an insurance company.  hes gotten a lot of promotions throughout the years so ive been all over the midwest.  i went from illinois to xxx (city name), ohio when i was 3 and then i moved to wisconsin, xxx (town name) area, which is right on the mississippi river which was really fun growing up.  i was there from 3 years old until i think 8th grade so that was great.  it was a really nice part up in wisconsin so that was fun.  we were a very outdoorsy family, did a lot of camping, a lot of fishing, a lot of hunting.  that was really nice and then in 8th grade my dad got promoted to an xxx (city name) branch so that was really tough at the time for me just cause a lot of my life was spent in wisconsin, made a lot of friends since preschool up until 8th grade.
o that was a tough move but i really enjoyed my time in xxx (city name), went to xxx (high school name) so i had a half year into 8th grade at xxx (town name) and i was there until my senior year.  i ran cross country there my freshman year.  that was really nice just to kind of get to know people from moving and everything and i started getting a little faster and some colleges offered me some scholarships and stuff.  so my senior year i started to get a lot of different phone calls and stuff, mostly smaller colleges around the state which was really fun.  it was a really fun time in my life.  so i committed to xxx (college name) in april, which is a little late to decide on a college but its just kind of how it happens.
to xxx (college name) and i love it here.  its been really, really nice.  oh, i have 2 younger sisters.  they areones a sophomore at xxx (college name) and the other one is a junior at xxx (high school name).  theyre very different from me.  theyre more like id say extroverted people.  theyre very involved in a lot of different things and i do to an extent but they just kind of put themselves out there a little more.  so yeah im a senior at xxx (college name).  i just ran my last cross-country race of my career two weeks ago.  we won conference this past weekend, which is really fun.  it was fun to be part of that.  yeah i guess thats it.  thats all i can think of right now.  was that alright?  did i do that okay?
ive always loved sports from an early age.  i played a lot of flag football when i was little.  i wasnt able tomy mom wouldnt let me play tackle football because i was pretty small as a kid.  well i am still pretty small but i was like really small as a little kid so i only got to play flag football.  i played a lot of basketball when i was little.  i was actually decent at basketball but then i just didnt grow that much so i quit basketball.  i made the jv team and then i quit to focus on running.  my parentswait, no, this is about my life right?
okay well my parents moved to eastern illinois and so all my family lives in illinois so its nice to kind of make that trip over there for thanksgiving, christmas and stuff.  thats it. 
ection ii
i would say the closest thing ive had to that was this past semester, so not in the summer but in the spring semester of 2014.  im in nursing school and they just had a new curriculum implemented and it was really, really tough and anything below a c is considered failing and so i was like right on the border in a pharmacology class for most of the semester.  going into the final i think i had maybe like a d+ or c- and i did alright in the final, i think i got like a low b, but i didnt quite get the grade i needed to pass it and so that wasi think i missed it by a percentthat was really, really tough because that had a lot of like a domino effect for a lot of different things in my life.  
r instance, i had to appeal to the ncaa to keep my scholarship which is my tuition so that was really stressful cause i had to appeal to them in june and i didnt hear back until early august.  that was kind of tough and also i didnt get to move on with my classmates of whom id kind of grown close to in the past year since we had all the same classes together in nursing.  so i didnt get to move on with them, do clinicals and stuff, so that was a pretty stressful time in my life id say but it was relatively short lived, maybe a couple months or so.  but i met my girlfriend after the process, so that was good.  she helped me out a lot with this stuff so theres always a silver lining *laughs*.
i wouldnt say i was like depressed.  when i think of someone whos depressed, i think of someone whos like clinically depressed.  i would say i would haveeverybody has a day where theyre not feeling as good as they would like to but i think during that time i had that for a longer time maybe.  id go like 3 or 4 days like that, opposed to just like a day or something. 
i dont really think i have.  the closest thing i can think of to that level of stress for me is when i moved from wisconsin to xxx (city name) in 8th grade.  that was a really stressful time for me but other than that though ive had a pretty easy life for the most part, fortunately.
i think it was just for me it was that i felt that during that time if i didnt pass that class i would lose all social support in my life because not only would i not be able to move on with my nursing classmates, but also not be able to be on the cross-country team which i mean thats probably like 80% of my social life is hanging out with people from class and guys and girls on the cross-country team.  so i think that was just probably the main reason for why it was so difficult for me.
you know it wasnt like a quick fix necessarily.  im a pretty religious person and that helped a lot.  i go to xxx (christian church name), just up xxx (interstate name), and  there were a couple sermons and a couple verses that really helped me a lot to put everything in perspective because sometimes you dont see things on the uh you can only see short term and theres a much bigger timeline than youre able to grasp.  sometimes its important to be reminded of the big picture of things so yeah there were a couple verses specifically, in hebrews i believe, that had to do with your struggles in life build character and that builds endurance, endurance builds character, and that brings you closer to god.  so that kind of thing, those kinds of verses, really helped me see a silver lining to what i was going through.  not that it was a real struggle, i mean people go through a lot more difficult things than that, but it helped me quite a bit.
i dont know exactly what you mean.
yeah uh let me start with the things that are worse than that.  i know sometimes like if i getsomething that would be similar, not quite as severe, would be if i got like a stress fracture or something and so after putting in a summers training and getting a stress fracture so im not able to compete for the season; thats really tough.  id have to cope in kind of the same way.  things that people have to struggle through like a death in the family or the, like you said, a tough breakup or something like that.  i would consider those a little more severe than what i had to go through but kind of along the same lines of stressful times anyway.
ection iii: change
i didnt have a job and during that time going running with my teammates stayed the same, like getting up and going to practice and that sort of thing, even though i was worried about if i was going to be able to do that during that time when i was stressing over it like not being able to be on the team and losing my scholarship.  that was something that stayed the same.  i go home every sunday or probably every other sunday, to see my family and stuff and that was a constant there.  
no.
i think i might have been a little more distant from people at times.  i know i didnt want to.  i dont know if i was embarrassed about it or if i just didnt want to likei dont always like telling people my problems like whats going on.  its easier for me to like just, i dont know how to say this, but like its easier for me to hear other people what they have going on and help them through things than it is for me to receive help from other people.  so what was the question again?  im sorry.
o yeah i was just a little more distant from people than i had been before and people could tell.  i had a friend tell me like you just seem a little off, a little different and so there were times where i would explain things to them and they would sympathize and stuff.
well something that i didnt really notice at the time but probably was kind of helped me and was a constant in my social functioning was my study groups that i was in for nursing school and in a funny way by studying and hanging out and stuff; that helped me.  somehow got me to keep my mind off the stuff i was struggling with that i could possibly lose my scholarship.
that sort of thing, just kind of hanging out in study groups and working on that sort of thing, really helped me a lot.  i didnt feel any difference there.
well i mean i think i maybe touched on this a little bit but i just wasnt as outgoing as i usually was around the team, cross-country and track team, and just around friends in general, roommates, classmates; that sort of thing.  i dont know.  itd just be like simple stuff like after a weekend id be like asking people what they did or even like hanging out and stuff, like going out and that sort of thing, part of it was because i needed to focus on getting a good grade on the final but part of it maybe was i just didnt really enjoy going out as much as i did before or drinking or anything like that.  
you know i think i was, cause i always considered myself a pretty solid student even when i was going through that like possibly failing that class, and so i think just my perseverance and my diligence towards my schoolwork.  that stayed the same.  i was still pretty motivated to do well.
what about the way you thought and felt (emotions)?  what was different?
i didnt uh im usually a pretty optimistic person about a lot of things and i would really, really try to be like optimistic about it but i found really for the first time in my life i reached some barriers to that and it just was very, very overwhelming to think about losing really most of my social support and also my scholarship so i guess also part of the social support would be my like parents disapproving and so thats one of the things too is you never want to make your parentsyou always want to make your parents proud.  not being able to run on the team and hang out with those guys as much, not being in class with my former nursing students, and then also kind of just not making my parents proud like i was used to; that all kind of accumulated into this feeling of just really overwhelming sadness i guess at times.
well, i guessi think i touched on this earlierbut keeping my faith and stuff; that was a real constant and i probably even relied on that more than i had previously and so that was a constant thing in my life.  it was something that i was really, really glad that i had that cause i dont know exactly how i would have coped without it but that was a good thing.
did your emotions stay the same in any way during that time?
its hard to think about how they stayed the same cause there was so much that was different about it and just thinking about it.  its hard to remember the things that were the same because when i think back to that time its the thing that were different that really stick out to me, and im sure there were things that were the same, but its difficult to think of that.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?
i mean it felt like it had complete control of my life.  i mean by studying hard and doing well on the final i knew i could pass it and these things wouldnt happen but that was becoming more of a longshot the longer i thought about it and it felt like it had nearly complete control of my life until i started doing different things to cope with it.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time in your life?
were probably talking like a two month time span for like all of it and i would say for about like the first monthsorry what was the question again?
yeah it felt, for that first month, it felt nearly uncontrollable.  i said this before but im usually pretty optimistic and ive always been kind of able to overcome things through *laughs* intense optimism and i tried and id reach barriers where i just couldnt get past the fact that i wouldnt be able to be spending as much time with people i was really, really close to so i wasnt really able to control it.  i didnt really feel like i had that much control over my mental state and it was a very overwhelming feeling but then as i went to church more and read the bible more, i was kind of able to regain my control and confidence in really just kind of my purpose in life i guess.  it was just like changing by gaining a different perspective on things i was able to regain my usual mental state that second month, gradually, and then i just progressed.  i found out that i would be receiving my scholarship and so that really helped and at that time i would really get back to normal.
i know it caused my parents a lot of grief.  i dont know if griefs the right word, but they knew something was going on and i just wasnt very specific about things.  id kind of give like general things like oh schools not going how i thought it would this semester; that sort of thing.  they really didnt know about all the things it was doing to me emotionally until later and so at the time they were--i think my coming home and them seeing me just a little different; it caused them some confusion and some concern, especially with my mom.  so that was tough.
y roommates as well im sure.  they kind of saw it in me but you know i dont really know if it changed them that much.  they were really, really supportive so that was good.
o i think of a couple people specifically.  i had one of my really good friends in nursing school.  really, really intelligent guy.  he was the only person to get an a in the class and he was just really, really motivating for me and helped me study, helped me regain some confidence in my abilities.  im so sorry, what was the question?
*repeats question*
oh okay *laughs* and so yeah he really helped me cope with it, helped me stay focused on what i really need to do to get a good grade in that class and how i would be able to do better if i had to take it again.  i am taking it again right now and doing like really, really well and hes been a really big influence on that just kind of bolstering my confidence, my self-efficacy, and just teaching me ways of studying cause learning about drugs isnt necessarily easy or doesnt come natural for everybody so just kind of teaching me his thought process on how to attack it so that really helped out a lot.  also, my now girlfriend was really supportive too at the time and helped me out a lot just helping me cause its hard to me optimistic by yourself so she really, really helped me a lot just to find a silver lining for pretty much everything that was going on.
you know its hard to just say one thing.  i see a lot of different things.  id like to graduatei see myself graduating with, my goal is above a 3.5.  i really, really see myself keeping that which would mean i could go toid have a pretty decent selection of graduate schools.  id like to go somewhere else outside of the state, outside of indiana, and like wisconsin potentially.  i know north carolina has some good schools for a nurse practitioner.  where else was i looking?  i just looked at this yesterday.  theres a couple in california; those are kind of expensive.  oh university of michigan i think they have the fourth best family nurse practitioner program in the country so thats kind of what im kind of thinking about right now and they also have a really good international program.  id really like to integrate my abilities as a nurse and the gospel message and kind of use that here as well as internationally.  id like to do a lot of travelling before i even start thinking about potentially marriage or anything.  id like to do a lot of different traveling cause i havent beenthe farthest ive been is i think south dakota.  i went to mount rushmore when i was little so i havent really been anywhere but id like to go a lot of different places; iceland, new zealand, that sort of thing.  just kind of do what i can while im young, that sort of thing but yeah i guess thats what i see for the short-term.
i guess starting from the beginning i was born on september 16th, 1994; wasnt actually supposed to be my birthday.  i was born 2 months early so premature but it was a good birthday surprise for my dad.  him and i share a birthday so born and raised in xxx (town name), indiana which is northwest indiana; pretty close to gary, and lived there pretty much all my life.  so i mean starting when i was like an infant i was told i had a bunch of different problems cause i was born premature so worked through all of those, lots of doctor visits, lots of er visits, but hey everything worked out in the end.
ther than that, a little after a year after i was born my sister was born so shes about 15 months younger than i am.  her names xxx (first name) so weve always been pretty close growing up just because our age differences are pretty similar but my mom has always been in the healthcare, health service industry.  she was a nurse and now recently got her phd and is a professor at xxx (college name) in the school of nursing.  my dads been doing the same thing hes always been doing.  hes been driving a semi-truck ever since he was 18 so i mean they still do that to this day so i mean things worked out well for them.  growing up, we were always a pretty tight knit family and quite a bit of our extended family is also from xxx (town name) so it was a lot of grandparents lived like a couple streets down, aunts and uncles, lots of just different family members in one collective area.
when i talk about family, its mostly my moms side.  i never really knew my dads family all that well.  they were really never apart of the picture but i would say growing up i was a pretty normal kid.  i wound up having to do like some speech therapy and stuff and went through preschool twice i think but still made it into elementary school.  i went to xxx (elementary school name) for k through 5 and i mean that was a good experience overall.  my favorite teacher is still my first grade teacher that i had and like a lot happened, kind of tested some boundaries a bit when i was in elementary school; got into a bit of trouble, see how far i could go.  they tore down our school like in the middle of me going through elementary so it was like switching around schools, they just moved us to a different one, but then moved us back to the new one at the end.
kind of found out that i liked school in that point in my life.  i did a program called like i started doing after school activities.  i started doing some sports, mostly running so track or cross-country and joined a club called young astronauts and i went to space camp in alabama for a week when i think i was in 3rd grade.  my sister was always close behind.  we were pretty similar.  i mean, sports that i started doing when i was in elementary school; i was playing soccer, i was bowling and those are some things that i still kind of do to this day.  throughout elementary i still lived in the same house.  its a 2 story house with a basement so i mean it was built in the 40s.  its home and it always has been cause theres never been another place that ive lived.
remember walking to school because my house was always close to elementary, middle, and high school.  theyre all very close to each other so went into the middle school years.  those were a little bit rougher, got picked on quite a bit but i dont know.  i tend to like push most all middle school stuff to the back cause i dont like to remember it a lot.  i mean nothing terrible happened but it was just kind of classic bullying like hey it happens to the best of us.  i didnt really like middle school as much as elementary school, not that things were getting tougher.  i felt like that was the first time in my life i didnt feel like i didnt fit in and i kind of had to discover some new stuff about where i thought i belonged and make some new friend groups and blah blah blah and i guess the friend group that i would classify myself in was kind of like the nobody group.
there wasnt anything wrong with that.  i wasnt ever a popular kid or a kid who played sports.  i mean i did play sports but i just started to get involved a lot more like joined a lot of clubs, track, cross-country; all throughout middle school, and soccer so i usually kept myself pretty busy.  i mean i started doing some peer tutoring in middle school, just kind of getting ready for high school.  i kind of wanted to finish up middle school as quickly as possible so i moved onto xxx (high school name), which is a public school with about 1800 students there.  its one of the medium sized schools in indiana, not nearly as big as xxx (high school name) which is like 4400 kids going to it.  they have over 1000 in their graduating class, but no we had about 400  in my graduating class; about 400 or 500.
thought high school was going to pretty good and it turned out to be that way.  there were a couple of disappointments like i kind of wanted to get on the soccer team in high school.  i had done traveling soccer when i was growing up and tried out twice and didnt make it either time, partially i think its down to some politics.  you had to have the right connections and i dont think i did but i mean i wasnt bothered in high school like i was in middle school and getting grades was easy.  i mean it just took a little bit more effort than it had before but i still kind of felt like i never really fit in anywhere in particular and i was kind of wishing for that new lease on life and one day i remember since i was like doing so many other things or like that kind of slowed down a little bit in high school and i would just come home after school and sit and do nothing.
that started to get old really fast so one day i remember coming home and there was a piece of mail that we had gotten that day and it was for a place called indiana academy and i remember looking into it a little bit more and found out that it was a residential high school on xxx (college name)s campus for junior and senior year of high school.  its kind of like a gifted and talented school and i decided that i was going to apply for it.  i wasnt really sure whether id get in or not but im like hey i could potentially do something really different right now and the fact that i wasnt really liking high school all that much was just more motivation for me to do it.  i would up applying and going to info sessions and getting everything in that i needed and i wound up getting accepted so my sophomore year of high school things kind ofi kind of got a little bit of senioritis cause im like im done with this school like im not even going to be here next year.
y grades didnt slip or anything but like i was just really glad that i was going to be getting out of there.  junior year i moved off to the academy, which is right on xxx (college name)s campus and i was really looking forward to it cause i knew itd help me get into college and stuff like that.  i got there and my roommate and i were pretty cool, first time id ever had a roommate.  it was a little interesting.  its like college 2 years early, at least thats what i thought college would be like.  i was kind of sorely mistaken when i came here for my freshman year but i dont know.  i didnt initially have too big of a problem moving away from home at only 16 so got down there, like got all signed up for classes and everything and was pretty excited but the 2nd or 3rd week something kind of hit me.
es werent going the way i wanted them to be and i was having a ton of scheduling conflicts and like i really wanted to, since i never got to play high school soccer back at my home school, im like im going to try here but i still had class conflicts and ended up giving up on it.  that was kind of tough for me because id been playing soccer ever since i was like 3 or 4 years old.  it was a big part of my life but i mean i eventually moved on from that and like the academy experiencei would never give it up for anything.  i mean some people complained that it wasnt the greatest experience ever but i got a lot out of it.  it allowed me to like reinvent myself like i had been wanting to do.  i knew no one going there so every single person that i met was a new face and it wound up that i still have a bunch of guys that i consider to be some of my best friends to this day since we all met there.
t was a lot of work because theyre pretty much all college prep courses so thats when any significant amount of stress had been introduced into my life and so i started to learn how to deal with that and i started to learn how to procrastinate *laughs*, which sadly is still a bit of an ongoing process today.  junior year went well, and then at the end of junior year i found out about a position called pa which is peer assistant.  its very similar to what an ra is but with less responsibility since i was still only 17 or 18 at the time but senior year came along and i got ready like i was starting to get ready for college.  i was pretty excited for it, not that i hated the academy or anything, but just excited to move onto a new chapter.  so i was a pa that year.  i got to knowi had a group of like 8 residents and thats who i was responsible for.
that was a really good experience.  i really enjoyed the pa thing and thats the reason im an ra here today here but i mean i made it through my senior year, classes were fine, had my first girlfriend senior year of high school.  that was an interesting experience, definitely one that i learned from.  no longer dating her but thats okay so i moved on from school and i wound up applying to 9 different schools and xxx (college name) was actually the last school i applied to.  it was the one that i chose partially because i was thinking at the time i wanted to go into medicine and this would be a really good campus with all the hospitals around it and i really wanted a city feel.  sure i would have liked to gone to some other colleges i went to but it all came down to money.  here was the cheapest and like for undergraduate it would be a good place to go like yeah i would have loved to go to ucla but you know money *laughs*.
nyways, i started as a biology major here, kind of had a rude awakening.  id been going to academy for 2 years; college i got this.  its going to be a breeze.  rude awakening; its not, even for me.  i came in as a sophomore with some transfer credits, not that i was all ready for this uh my roommate and i didnt exactly see eye to eye but i mean again it was just someone that i lived with, not really much contact in or out of the room.  things started to go a little bit wrong so like me thinking that college was going to be a breeze wasnt getting me the grades that i should have been getting and then i had issues with the girlfriend at the time and then i decided that i wanted to check out and see if rotc was the thing for me so i tried a lot of different things that fall semester and that really put my family i guess through a lot of stress.
gured it would be alright since i had kind of like got them used to me not being around but for some reason when i went to college it changed.  they were getting really upset with some of the decisions i was making and none of them were necessarily bad.  i was just trying to see what was out there and see what i liked.  i mean other than grades slipping that was all.  as fall semester went on, things got progressively worse and then like i wound up going home for christmas break and it was terrible, didnt want to be at home, wanted to be anywhere else, and it was a godsend coming back from christmas break.  that was kind of like a dark time in my life.  i didnt really go out much or talk to many people.  i just kind of let my thoughts eat me up which wasnt necessarily a good thing.
blamed my family for a lot of things, just got really upset with them for being controlling over me and i wanted to try and make some of my own decisions so i ended up cutting off contact with them for like 3 or 4 months, like sent back forms of communication to them.  i wound up going to caps (counseling and psychological service), which helped, got me through it and ever since then ive slowly been building the relationship with my family and like in all that my girlfriend got dumped.  everything just kind of blew up in my face but hey i mean i guess everybody has to go through something like that.  since then, like i really enjoyed my job that i had last year.  i worked in a lab.  i did research, psychology research, this summer through a doctor at the school of public health and i got the ra position in the spring and that was really exciting cause another thing that got dumped on me was finances so like parents stopped paying for school so i had to figure out how to do all that.  ra was a huge relief, especially after that freshman year so ive really been enjoying the ra experience right now.  i think its helped me grow as a person.
y sister wound up graduating a semester early from high school so shes going to school right now at xxx (college name) for secondary english education and shes enjoying it there and maybe one day will end up down here as a transfer.  other than that, i mean through all this my parents have gone through some tough times like me growing up my mom had a bout with breast cancer, wound up surviving, and then both my dads parents passed.  it wasnt very tough for him cause they were never very close which was part of the reason my family wasnt, but everything wound up working out and i mean now here i sit, having a pretty good time with college and life and yeah more or less thats my life story. 

ection ii
yeah, the whole thing about the fallout with my family.  i had some thoughts that i definitely shouldnt have been thinking and thats one of the reasons why i wound up at caps (counseling and psychological services).  those thoughts of like suicide or whatever is completely gone now, but i was really struggling within the past year to see like what was the point, especially with everything that was going on.
o i wasi mean i guess a good way to describe it would be hopeless like whats the point.  one thing that i tend to do, just me personally, is if theres any problem that occurs i usually like to blame myself first so im like okay this is my fault, i did this im sorry, and then sometimes like ill keep mulling over that in my head and it kind of branches out into something that it necessarily shouldnt.  but it was like i just kept what i was trying to do was i didnt want to burden other people with what was going on in my life so i kept it all to myself and like the people who id always reached out to was my family and when i cut off that communication, like that was a conscious decision that i made, like i didnt know exactly who to reach out to.  i wanted to reach out to someone who wasnt involved in the situation but i couldnt really do that so i mean it was unstable, but with the counseling that i received i feel that im a lot better now.
no that was kind of my only like big gripe thats been recent.  ive never reallyi mean sure ive been upset with people before but never to an extent that i was during freshman year.
part of it was my own like upbringing, or not upbringing but my own fault.  i wasnt making the greatest decisions like i was decided to spend more time like with my girlfriend that didnt necessarily, she was a senior at the time, who didnt understand what college was like and all that it demanded and i was spending too much time not doing things that i should have been which caused grades to slip.  then like i was just scrambling for the rest of the semester, trying to get things back up, which happened a little bit but i mean the other thing was like i got put on probation with the honors college and that was a big thing because i could not lose my scholarship and still cant because thats like vital for me to go to school.  but what was the question again?  i think i got carried away a little bit.
o caps (counseling and psychological services) helped a lot.  i went through 6 one hour sessions.  it was over a period of 6 weeks and it really made me feel like i wasnt crazy or like insane for doing or thinking some of the things that i thought cause i mean thats what family was calling me and like i knew that i wasnt but like after being beat into my head for months it made me start to believe it.  so the counseling helped a lot and then just the thought of like maybe being able to help other people like in the future with the experiences ive been through like my ra last year helped me a lot and that was one of the reasons why i wanted was the position because i wanted to even be the amount that he had helped me.  
uld do that for one of my residents, like thats all i want out of it so there was that and like im currently a mentor for the research that im doing or that im taking part in.  im mentoring for depressed latino adolescents so thats been going since june and its been going really well and i really feel like i get a lot out of it so kind of like helping others through situations that are similar to ones ive been through have help me moving on through what ive been through.
i feel like i have some better people surrounding me now that i did cause i mean ive made good friends and i have a better idea of what i would need to do if i got into one of those situations again to get out of it as quickly as possible.
ection iii: change
o what has changed is ive tried to lighten up my course load.  its a pretty heavy course load.  ive also lessened the procrastination and just tried to do an overall like general job, like better overall job like studying and getting things done when theyre supposed to be like so thats on the academic side of things.
right, so like with my first relationship i thought oh man this is the one and it took me a little while to realize like no its just not but i mean im in a relationship now and im a lot happier than i have been and arguably ever have been.  thats been able to help a lot.  my friendship with the friends that i have remained pretty strong through all that i went through mostly because i mean some of them i completely opened up to but very few people know the whole story.  the whole thing with family like were almost back to normal i would say.  i know were never going to be like on the level that we once were and i dont want to be on that level because i want to be able to run my life but like i can go home for a couple of days or a week or a couple weeks and still feel comfortable, like things with them improved quite a bit since then.
through this whole likeive always been a fairly introverted person, still consider myself an introvert, but with the whole peer assistant and ra job that opened me up to like being a little more of an extrovert and its something that ive enjoyed.  i enjoy meeting new people like theres still that nervous anxiety with someone ive never met, never talked to before or in groups but its very minimal and i enjoy getting to know other people so thats been something thats changed about me.  im a lot more comfortable being myself as well in front of other people.  i dont feel like i have to be someone else and thats i guess kind of occurred through like a self-discovery process, im not sure, through all of this but yeah.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  whats stayed the same?  whats different?
emotionally ive been likehistorically ive been a pretty stable person.  im not a person that i wouldnt say im over-emotional.  i tend to keep emotions to myself.  its just one thing that i kind of like to keep personal.  i mean some people very close to me may know about them but its something that i really just like to keep to myself.  emotionally i feel like im a little bit more experienced through some of the different relationships ive been in and i can say that ive learned a lot through them, about myself and about other people.  i mean even though theres negatives with them ending or whatever; theres positives with both of us learning something.  both of us got something out of it.  
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?


to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time of crisis?



thats a good question so like ive beenonce i kind of got myself straightened out i figured like alright now trying to figure out where to go so this whole past semester, i guess year, i looked into a lot of different things.  rotci looked into it first semester and after that semester, in the summer of thinking about it i decided that it wasnt for me.  its a really cool experience but there were just a couple of reasons i just didnt want to do it.  but i mean other than that ive been meeting with advisors and career advisors a lot, trying to figure out what i want to do with my life and i think i finally might have a pretty good option.  for the past year, ive thought about changing my major.  i finally did.  i went from biology to now im a neuroscience major so im looking forward to that a lot.  it should be a lot better situation than what biology was for me.  other than that i decided that med school also wasnt going to be the thing for me and i decided that grad school is probably a better option.  
dont know what i want to do yet but i have time to figure it out.  im only a sophomore but i mean non-academically i plan to still maintain a relationship with my family and friends.  i miss seeing some of the buddies that i met at the academy cause we kind of likethe academy is only for people that live in indiana, but one of my friends is up in xxx (city name) right now.  another ones down in xxx (town name) and ones in alabama so were kind of like all spread out at our different respective colleges and im going to get to see some over thanksgiving so im really excited for that but just keep on maintaining those because its nice to know that i have them even though i dont use them a lot.  i know that most of my friends like i may not talk to them a lot but i know that like if i ever need them like theyll be there and thats kind of comforting to me.  
for romantic relationships, im really happy with the one im in now and im just going to keep on living it day by day.  i dont try to look too far out in the future with it and just enjoy where im at and if it leads to good or bad like so be it.  ive kind of changed my perspective on that because before ive realized like oh man this is only going to be good things and in truth its not, but i mean work experience i want to try to start working in some things that might match my field a little bit better.  im trying to think about whether i want to continue to be an ra next year.  i mean, things change but regardless ive had a good experience in every work thing ive ever done so theres always something to be learned so yeah thats probably where it takes me with the future. 
well i was born in xxx (town name), indiana.  its south of xxx (town name).  im the oldest child so i started growing up with just my mom and dad, then i had 2 younger brothers.  one when i was 3, one when i was 5.  i went to preschool and then kindergarten and elementary.  i played bitty basketball and then i quit cause i was too short.  i played soccer and then when i was in junior high i quit soccer and then i started again when i was in 8th grade, then i graduated from xxx (junior high school name) and stuff so then i had to move up to xxx (high school name) where i started playing soccer again.  i was in clubs.  i did senior student council.  i was treasurer of national honor society.  i was a member of beta club.  my senior year i did drama and spanish club, best actor in my high school play.  i filled out a lot of scholarships to come to college, graduated top 10 in my class, came here and i guess now im here.
ection ii
i dont think so.
i tend to deal with stress really well so like i dont know.  i guess kind of coming to college was stressful cause i came from like a really small town and like im paying for it all on my own and just like leaving home and everything.  that was kind of stressful so that was probably the most stressful thing thats happened.
i just tried to prepare myself to be independent.  i think i dealt with it really well.  i justi mean i like just took the best of it like i came early for bridge so like i got to adapt really easily and the adaption was easier for maybe me than for other students that like came at the beginning of the school year so i think i adjusted really well and i just--i dont know--i stayed positive about it and i guess made the best of it.
probably when my grandma died 3 years ago and that was like really stressful cause we were like really close and stuff so that was difficult.  also, 3 years ago my dad was diagnosed with a debilitating muscle disorder so then he had to stop working so thats been like really stressful on my family and it still is cause he hasnt like got disability yet so its still stressful to the family.
probably the thing with my dad.
just like seeing my dad like go from like the person he was to having to deal with the disease to the point where he is now cause he used to be really active and did a lot to support the family and now he cant do any of that stuff and so its taken and emotional and financial strain on the family.
i just like i dont know.  i try not to let things like that affect me.  i try to stay positive and  then like i dont know i think i stepped up a lot like i started working a lot more and becoming more independent from them so then they didnt have to i guess take care of me as well.
i dont know cause i mean its still going on so its not something thats passed i guess.
i mean probably if he ended up passing away from the disease like thatd make it even worse.
ection iii: change
my schoolwork stayed the same.  it may have even got better because like my dad used to be the one that would push me really hard but like that developed a lot of self-motivation in myself so its just like anymore its myself pushing to do good so its like i didnt slip up or anything.  i may have even done better because its like im trying to do it for myself and not for someone else.
i guess nothings changed too much.  i dont think any of it has really changed.
i feel like ive become more independent.  i, like i said, i deal with stress really well and i dont know if i already had that quality or if that slowly developed from that so that i may have improved in like dealing with stress and of course my motivation sky rocketed and that really improved.  i think its kind of made my optimism stronger, like being faced with a difficult situation to see as positive.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  whats stayed the same?  whats different?
it may have like helped me to think more logically like analyze more options rather than just making rash decisions, like to think a little more.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?
like i said it cut the familys income nearly in half so i guess my financial situation.  i mean i started having to work, well my parents didnt tell me i had to, but i started working more often to take care of myself.  i guess thats really it.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time?
i mean its difficult.  its not easy but its just something like its been awhile like over 2 years now so its something weve learned, ive learned, to adapt to.  i mean its scary that hes like i dont know but i dont know how to explain it.  its just likei dont know.
i mean i guess i kind of gave my younger brothers like something to look up to and i tried to help my mom out so id like to think that helped keep her positive too.
i dont know.  my dad actually has dealt with it really well like i mean he just sees it like its something that gods given him.  he just has to deal with it so i guess seeing him not necessarily be okay with it but deal with it so well like that just led me to.
im at college to get a degree in nursing so i hope to finish college with a bachelors degree in nursing and im not sure exactly what i want to do yet.  right now im thinking like an er nurse or maybe an operating room nurse, but maybe a physicians assistant; come back to school after working.
i grew up in xxx (township name), went to xxx (elementary school name).  i had some good teachers there; nothing really stands out in elementary school.  i moved during my 5th grade year to xxx (town name), indiana, which is about 45 minutes south of xxx (city name); been living there ever since.  i went to middle school there, liked it there, and went to high school in xxx (town name).  it was only about 10 minutes away from my house, made a lot of good friends, a lot of whom i still am in contact with today.  in high school, i started thinking about what i wanted to do when i graduated.  my freshman year i had a football coach that was in the marines who really inspired me and i had a lot of talks with him about joining the military and he really inspired me to look further into joining the service so i did a lot of my own research and spoke with other friends and family that were in the military.  
y parents and i decided that i wanted to join the military.  i didnt really know what branch for sure yet but my freshman year, when all this was happening, i dislocated my shoulder during a practice and i hard tore a muscle and i had to have surgery on it.  i didnt have surgery until after the season, right before my sophomore year is when i had my surgery.  it was about 6 months of physical therapy and then i was cleared to play again so then my sophomore year i started about halfway through the season and the very first day that i was cleared to go to practice i went to practice and started getting right into it.  my shoulder started hurting again and never really fully recovered from the first injury so then after the sophomore year football season i went back to the doctor, got another mri, and they sent me back to physical therapy so 4 more months of physical therapy.
then after that it didnt help so they decided that they were going to have to do another surgery so the surgery was in july of like before my senior year so then i started my senior year in a sling and went through the whole process again; 6 weeks in a sling and 6 more months of physical therapy.  then afterwards i was good that time, better than after the first surgery.  theres still pain with it but not nearly as much and its very faint.  during the whole process i was only thinking about the military and wasnt planning on going to college right out of high school.  i knew i wanted to go to college but i just pretty much developed my whole life, my whole plan, around the military and hadnt gone and taken the act or sat and hadnt really been looking into colleges or what i would even want to do.
und myself, after my second surgery, at the beginning of my senior year just had a heart to heart with my dad and just decided that i wouldnt be able to go into the military right out of high school just cause of my shoulder, the surgery.   theres regulations and stuff like that so i couldnt join right out of high school so i decided i had to put that plan on the back burner and started looking into colleges so i was just very stressed out my senior year, taking the tests; act and sat, figuring everything out, applying to colleges.  i started to go to xxx (college name) and then ive always been interested in the medical field and having all the surgeries really got to experience a lot of the hospital experiences i guess and then i decided that id go to school to become a doctor so *laughs* i decided to go to xxx (college name).
urrently majoring in neuroscience, just my freshman year.  i dont know how long im going toif im going to continue majoring in neuroscience or picking a different major to get me, not really ready for medical school but just in the right direction i guess and then at the same time at my orientation i talked to the rotc.  theres a table for the rotc at the job fair.  i talked to those guys and asked them a little bit about the program and i didnt really know xxx (college name) had an rotc program so i looked into it.  i enrolled in it and so now im in rotc and im trying to balance the army, rotc, and neuroscience and its pretty difficult.  i am kicking myself because i wanted to do the military and then i decided that i couldnt at this point in my life and so i decided to go to college and now im in college and i decided to bring the military back in so im trying to do both and both are pretty stressful.
ts pretty hard so im trying to decide, still trying to decide, what i want to do with my life.  whether i want to go into the army right out of college, after i get my bachelors, or if i want to go through medical school through the army and through the scholarship program but im not really interested in being a doctor in the military.  im interested in like infantry and then special forces so thats what id like to do but so im working towards that.  im using rotc and i dont know if i want to commission as an officer either.  im really using rotc to just educate myself as best as i can and using the pt to get into shape and then maybe i dont know.  i have a lot of options i guess but maybe take a break from school if i get to the right physical abilities as i would need and then just enlist and go into the army and go that route then go back to school but i dont know.  im still trying to figure all that out.  thats pretty much where im at now.
ection ii
i guess, i dont know, probably that whole situation.  that was pretty stressful so im still dealing with that.  im still stressing out about that every day and then i dont know.  my uncle died my sophomore year.  that was pretty tough so that was a big thing that happened i guess.
probably the military.
i dont know.  i was pretty stressed.  i was pretty down on myself because i just took it out on myself saying that i wasnt good enough and i dont think i was depressed, more of just upset and just kind of mad of the whole situation, which i know wasnt under my control.  i mean i can control having to have surgery and like being injured but i dont know.  im mad at the person that caused the injury cause it was justi dont know hes just messing around, jacking off and he was an upperclassman so they liked messing with the younger kids so he was just slacking off for a play and dove right into my shoulder, just thought itd be funny and then he laughed about it too.  but i dont know.  i dont reallyi was mad at him but im just mostly upset about the whole situation i find myself in, just stressed out that i had no time to really plan anything cause id been planning for 4 years to go into the military and then in like 3 months i had to decide everything pretty much, what i want to do with my life, so i guess thats whats going on. 
ive been stressed out other times but this probably had the biggest impact on me and like my life and probably not.  this is probably the biggest.
probably the difficulties i experience were probably caused by the fact that it is my physical health and i just took it out on myself that like im the reason that my physical is at how it is now and i dont know.  i procrastinate so i get upset about that.  i dont really know.
o i recuperated byi learned from my mistakes i guess by not just having one plan and just focusing on one goal and thinking that nothing bad thatll happen that ill just be able to focus on that one goal so like in the past all i was thinking about the military and nothing else.  now i have a lot of back up plans and so i guess thats the only good thing that came out of the situation.  i no longer am just planning on getting my bachelors in neuroscience and going to med school.  i have other plans too.  i have other things that i would enjoy and that im constantly thinking about that i could, if this doesnt work out, i could do this and thats how i kind of recuperated, making sure like nothing like that would happen again and im also recuperating being in rotc by trying to pretty much get a foot into the door there.  im working on that so thats how i recuperated.
yeah, yeah.
ection iii: change
o i still have the, i dont know, like i still have good work ethic i guess.  i work harder at things i think, especially like rotc.  its kind of a difficult question i guess.  i dont know.  i dont like starting things and then giving up, no matter how much i dont enjoy what im doing.  if i start something, i feel like i need to finish it and then if i put my mind to something i dont like changing that like if im really like if i really like something, really want to do something; i usually try not to give up before it happens.  so i still have that cause im still working on going into the military so i havent given up on that cause its really important to me.  i guess thats it *laughs*.
i still have a lot of friends.  my social lifes pretty good actually.  i have a lot of friends.  i try to surround myself with people i enjoy being around and if i dont know.  i dont really like spending time with people i dont like, which no one really does.  i have a couple best friends that i can really talk about anything with and they help me get through that kind of stuff like if theres relationship problems and anything i have going on in my life.  i could just hang out with them and talk about anything really.  i dont really talk to my parents about a lot of this stuff.  i talk to them about the military and like plans in college, stuff like that, but i just dont really talk to them about personal things and the stuff i do like college stuff; its just stuff i think they would want to hear.  
really dont tell them that im stressing out about a grade or anything like that because then i just know theyre going to be like i need to be studying harder and i know what their answers going to be so i dont really let them know whats going on because i know exactly what theyre going to say and theyre helpful but sometimes its just repetitive and i dont know.  i dont really talk to them about really personal stuff cause i feel like i dont know.  i dont reallyid rather talk to my best friends about it cause i dont know if im embarrassed or just dont know what to talk to my parents about but so i dont know.  nothings really changed after the experience either.  ive always had really good friends and theyre still my friends after it happened so it hasnt really changed.
i think ive gotten really mature since then.  ive reallyim not really nave i guess on some things.  i put more thought into what i want to do and im always thinking about the best thing to do and what the best course of action would be for certain things and i dont know.  i think ive gotteni feel like ive gotten a lot older since that happened because i feel like i was just a little kid when i was in high school just thinking about the one thing and then i think i just grew up when that happened, especially like living on my own.  thats helped but probably got more mature.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  whats stayed the same?  whats different?
i dont know.  i guessi dont know.  i guess i was angry when it happened and then angry when i had to finally just get into the fact that im not the physical stamina that i need to be at and then i was kind of just stressed out with all the things that happened afterwards.  im still really stressed out all the time, just always feels like theres a thousand things on my plate that i have to deal with and its never-ending the stuff thats going on i guess.  i dont know.  i guess, after it happened, im always thinking about things more in depth i guess, just thinking about my options and solutions to my problems i guess and just trying to make sure im going to do the best possible thing to solve my problems i guess.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?
it was pretty controlling i guess because it impacted my entire future--i dont know --cause the hardship with what i wanted to do the rest of my life, i guess, my immediate plans and my plans down the road.  i think thats it.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time of crisis?
i think i was pretty good, like pretty good at controlling it.  i talked about it with my friends a lot, my best friends.  i guess theyre the only ones that really saw me vulnerable and that i had stuff going on.  i mean people knew that i wasnt going to be going into the military anymore and that i decided to go to college.  it wasnt really a big deal for anyone else i guess.  i guess thats howi just talked about it with my friends.
i dont know.  probably my parents were stressed out too cause theyre going through the same thing i guess.  they were going through it with me, helping me out, preparing for college and getting everything set up for the act and sat, figuring out what i wanted to do, helping me like talking through my options and just deciding what i wanted to do and just being really supportive i guess and thats about it.
o probably my friends, they helped me out.  they talked with me through it and they helped me just get over it i guess, just like work through it and they were really supportive and if i ever needed to talk to anyone theyd be there and that was helpful so thats how they impacted me.
i see ahead of myself, okay i definitely see the army playing a big part.  im not sure cause im still trying to figure out exactly which routes to go and the timeline and everything and i havent decided if i want to go into the military as soon as i get my pt scores where they need to be and taking a break from school or if i want to get my bachelors and then go into the military or get my bachelors then go to med school and then go into the military.  i dont know.  i havent really decided yet but those are definitely things i want to do so i definitely im going to get my bachelors and then army and then go to med school at some point.
im a triplet.  i grew upwe were born in xxx (city name).  im the youngest.  my brothers are identical and im fraternal.  my parents moved us out here when we were about 3 years old.  my dad worked for united airlines at the time and there was a job opening in xxx (city name) and they were opening a new airport at the time and he took the opportunity cause, in xxx (town name) specifically, is a much better place to raise a family than a small apartment in xxx (city name).  so they moved us and we eventually started private school at the church that we were going to and then in 5th grade we switched and went into the public school sector.  my dad lost his job so it was the best financial decision and in the public school they had a program that could cater to my brothers.
ne of my brothers has a learning disability and they both come out functioning together which is kind of neat but ive always been off doing my own thing, but then after that we went into the xxx (town name) school district and kind of grew up through there.  right about in 6th grade, i started doing whats called taekwondo and my parents were really good about pushing us in our own different sectors and doing our own thing.  we all started out in soccer and we did that as much as we could until we just kind of started devoting ourselves to one sport cause that was one thing that was always big with them is making sure we were active in whatever were doing.  we never really played video games or did anything like that.
n middle school, i picked up swimming and liked it better than anything id done before and it was a great physical workout too so i continued with that.  one of my brothers worked with diving and then my other brother worked with wrestling so in high school sports became year round responsibilities *laughs* and from that in high school i became involved with a lot of student activities.  i was really good in school.  i worked really hard and i studied a lot, as far as academics goes and so i tried to become more well-rounded because one thing they always push from the beginning is youre going to college i dont care if its a 4 year university or youre getting an associates degree; youre getting a degree period cause neither of my parents really had that opportunity or that motivation to.
they didnt really know.  my dad got his education through the military and my mom went and got her associates degree.  she comes from her parents being on the farm and so college was always for the rich kids.  it was never really for them and so they wanted to make sure whatever it is we were going to college and in high school i really wanted to make sure i was the best candidate for any scholarships and anything and so i became really involved in student council and homecoming and prom and all those fun things, especially swimming.  i continued swimming all 4 years and it eventually found me a job being a swim instructor and so i worked at my high school in between practices and after all my responsibilities and worked through that.
ntually junior and senior year came around and i started looking at colleges.  i was really tied between here and xxx (college name) and then i looked at tradition as far as demographics of what students aspects are and the opportunities and advantages to both schools and once i weighed out the pros and cons i ultimately decided here and decided to live on campus my freshman year and got really involved, almost too involved the next semester i learned.  i learned the hard way *laughs* and then i became an ra and have become really active on campus again so yeah i dont know what else youd want other than that but thats it for the most part.  my other brother; one went to this school in ohio and the other one is a commuter here cause were in xxx (town name) so its not too bad of a commute and his main thing was money.  he didnt want to go into debt with living on campus and i didnt mind it cause like i want that freshman experience and so he commutes and then i live on campus.
ection ii
tressful examsits funny that you said that cause to me all exams are stressful.  as far as the main stress, the only main stress that i really had was i came out to my mom my freshman year.  it was good and bad but it doesnt really affect me as much now.  ive grown to accept it and learn to what it is but other than that thats been the only main stress in my life.  academics overall are a constant stressor.  i dont let it overwhelm me.  i know that a test is a test and its not going to affect me as a human being.  its simply just another piece of paper that i need to do well on.
yes.
mhm.
it was very up and down.  i have a dear friend from high school that i leaned on a lot.  she currently goes to the university of alabama so that distance created kind of a mini stress from the fact that we couldnt see each other and i couldnt  go to her when i needed her but we did a lot of face timing, phone calls, just talking through things and she kind of kept me grounded through a lot of it because for a lot of that stress i would always rely on my mom but obviously at the time my stress was in that relationship so i couldnt rely on her and so i would call my friend a lot to kind of come to terms with things and see where shes at.  i even relied on her mother sometimes to kind of ask on her opinion on things too cause i value their opinion and what they think.  theyve been with me from the beginning so it was rocky for a while so yeah.  i guess if that answers the question *laughs*.
greater would probably have to be during middle school.  it was always a tough time for me cause i was a very extroverted student, always made sure everybody knew who i was.  i was the loudmouth in the room, always had a smile on his face, but i wasnt the most athletic and i wasnt kind of the stereotypical jock and so i got bullied a lot and it was very stressful sometimes and i would always come crying to my mom like whats wrong with me and it was a period in time where it was very, very difficult to figure out who i really was cause a lot of people kind of pushed that on me like youre not right, somethings wrong with you, type of thing and to me i was always sure of myself and so that sense of insecurity really unraveled me but thats been the only time other than that cause in high school with my accomplishments allowed me to kind of gain a better understanding on how to really figure out who i was and what i wanted to do.
i think a big thing was that i grew up in a very catholic, conservative background and the faith basis of it all was what we brought everything back to growing up.  it was always if you cant get through things on your own, find gods help to get you through it and the religious side of things and how we dont know if were accepted or this isnt the most moral thing as according to the bible and provided a lot of insecurity and uncertainty and as far as where do i go to for help and how do i cope with this and how do i deal with this adequately and so that was probably the biggest overall hardship about it and im still coming to terms with it now as far as my grandparents being very conservative in that nature as well.  its just that we had a very conservative upbringing and to be gay conflicts with that in many ways.
my recuperation methods were not the best.  i definitely kind of used an avoidance method with it.  i definitely looked at things in retrospect thinking i cant deal with this right now.  i need to push it off and table it and me not dealing with it was my moms i guess opinion of saying that i dont want to listen to it or i dont want to deal with this right now and that im not dealing with it and even though my methods were if i just push it off and focus on this task at hand and this task at hand, then eventually this task at hand becomes 20 tasks at hand and im suddenly overinvolved in what i needed to be.  that really wasnt dealing with it and so it was long conversations with my mom on dealing with it like i am okay and im doing great things.  i dont need to worry about this right now.  obviously my academics and what i wanted to do with my school experience are my priority.
i cant think of anything.  back in my childhood, there were really never any stressors other than just performance, making sure that i did my very best in everything i did.  a lot of that was highlighted in swimming because swimming youre constantly working with times and trying to get the best time for that next race and so with me it was always a series in being high-strung, being that type a personality that you always wanted to be your best but i cant really name it other than maybe the occurrence where my mom had lost her job my freshman year.  it was the summer between our freshman and sophomore year.  
her coping mechanism wasnt the best either.  she did a lot of drinking during this time.  she was always the root of our family household, always the strong suit, kind of that rock, and suddenly that rock has been broken and it cause d a huge stress in the overall family.  me personally i had sought out overworking myself at my high school, staying at the high school as much as possible, trying to work for a mission trip that i was going on over that summer and then id gone and left for 2 and  weeks in the middle of ecuador and so i really wasnt there and it was my sense of not wanting to deal with it cause it really wasnt a comfortable place being at home.  its hard to go home for a rock when your rock isnt there.
ection iii: change
nothing really changed too much with me and any responsibility or obligation i had.  i always put that head first in front of everything.  that comes into issues with academics and balancing things but its again just learning how to balance things.  ive never really lost a job for inadequacy.  ive always made sure that despite whatever im feeling outside of that work field or work environment that im putting my best foot forward in my work environment, which is good and bad for me.  its definitely been a coping mechanism as far as i can be a completely different person at work than i am at home and learning how to adapt that personality has been difficult.  however, i dont know if its necessarily the best or bad but its been a way to definitely try to adapt to any obstacles that come but ive never really ever been removed from a position.  ive always made sure to be able to maintain it.
not that i can think of.
i always sought out the trust in my mom.  my family was great and pretty open as far as any problems that we had.  we would always communicate and itd become a family concern.  we dealt with it as a family member but when i came out to my mom it was very private and my dad and my brothers still dont know.  i havent had that conversation with them yet.  my brothers and i were never really close to begin with, but when one of my brothers joined my same fraternity--an immediate, invisible wall was kind of built up in our communication.  we never really had that brotherly bond because my brothers were always closer and i was independent but even now trying to talk with him on some things or hearing their opinions on other political issues or like the freedom of equality in marriage and stuff like that that are really hot topics currentlyi would always keep my opinions to myself and then listen to theirs.  
t was always opposing of what i thought and so there were a lot of barriers that were kind of put up and sort of became really distant from my brothers.  this very much stressed out my parents because my parents always wanted us to be close and be together and always be that unit cause we were always the triplets.  we were never really individuals cause they wanted to make sure that we were always together, which really didnt happen as much especially as we grew older.  were closer now than we were in high school by any means.  we actually talk and communicate to one another and i respect them and i miss them occasionally as far as when im down here cause i never really go home that often cause i am an ra and do have to be down here.  
far as me being support for them, they see that but i dont ever see them as support anymore and then even with my dad weve even grown farther apart.  we used to be able to at least have decent conversations to one another but with him he gets mad at me whenever i seek out my mom for advice or ask her for help that i dont communicate with him. with me, its hard to even communicate with my mom sometimes and so its just a varied series of well i cant do everything and but some of it has been just a series of navigating on how to adapt to those situations.
there was not much that really did stay the same.  a lot of it did change.  ive been trying to make them better than they ever were in high school.  in high school, i was always like an i need to get out of here type of thing and i cant wait to get to college, i cant wait to be on my own, and i think the most stagnant relationship i ever had with them was in middle school and sort of the beginning of high school when i was doing athletics and i was almost seen as an equal to my brothers cause i never really was an athletically involved as my brothers.  it was always more academics were my strong suit and so in high school it was i think the first time was when my dad and i became actually close was homecoming.
had finally talked with him about hey help me out with this float, i dont know what im doing and can you help me with the construction and things like that.  with him, the biggest hardship was because hed always put my brother xxx (first name) first for a lot of things cause xxx (first name) had been in wrestling for a very long time and it was something that my dad and him kind of shared together.  it was a very intense relationship and as far as my dad trying to be a coach to him and things like that but with my dad nothing was ever as equal as wrestling.  however, when he would make time it was suddenly seemed like everything in the world was okay but weve never really had a stagnant relationship so to speak so its been very up and down. 
well i tried to have a couple romantic relationships my freshman year.  they never, ever ended well.  i had one in particular that i ended up getting very hurt and it was the most recent one that i had and it concluded right around march this past time.  the hard part was is that i could never find a true happiness in the relationship because i am so actively involved in school and i put all of those first over anybody that im with.  i always told my friends that i fall in love with the idea of someone versus actually finding someone.  my biggest downfall is that communication with them definitely is hard and i dont talk to the person.  ive always self-deprecated in these sort of relationships like i cant handle this or i dont always have time for you right now.
theyre like well you make time for what you make for and i just said well obviously i have time for other things so we need to stop and the other hard part was the fact that i couldnt be open about this relationship with my mom yet.  i hoped that one day i could be open with her about a relationship and i think once better communication with my family of who i really am will allow myself to at least be able to relax in a relationship.  it was never anything that was happy for me.  it always seemed very stressful.  i was always on edge with it for something to go wrong cause in the planning of most of my events and im planning for what is the worst case scenario and a lot of the times i have adapted that mindset into relationships so a lot of the romantic relationships that i did try to have were sacrificed and just cut real messily actually.  i had focused on my friendships rather than romantic relationships.
no.
it was definitely a judgment factor as to what people would think of me.  i tried at least to be an open book about things and even being in most of my friendships my friends would be like well are you gay or are you not?  its your kind of thing, you do you. i always tried to be as open as possible.  most of my friendships never really did change.  in fact, i gained stronger relationships from them and i joined my fraternity and became very close with my brothers and a couple of which who are out and very proud with who they are and that was a light that was seen and gained from it.  ive been able to go to them for advice as well so i think to wrap it up ive become a lot stronger in friendships.
definitely their opinion in me.  they never let it change.  they always thought that i was a go get them kind of kid, that i worked very hard for everything that ive accomplished and everything that id done and so they made sure that i haventtheyve always said that youre still the same person you were yesterday and 10 minutes ago.
my personality did change.  for a while when i first told her, it was very okay im still here for you, its not too much of a shock, and then it grew into a hey we need to figure things out this is really bad.  maybe you should go seek therapy or maybe you should talk to someone, i dont know who you are anymore, and that really kind of hurt a lot and i found myself going inner instead of being as extroverted as i used to be.  i started being in my room a lot more, staying very close to my residence hall, and a lot of people saw it as far as my attentiveness in meetings.  some of my meetings that i had for my responsibilities i kind of zoned out for a lot of them and just kind of became a face and that was really evident in the spring semester because that relationship with my parents.  
had really sacrificed a lot there because there were breaks, i wasnt going home on a weekly basis and i wasnt calling them on a weekly basis either and that really cut into that relationship a lot.  so i noticed myself becoming more depressed and more upset with a lot of things and angry even as to who i really am but then i was at least able to circumnavigate and deal with things in a much better way over the summer obviously but i definitely noticed a rise in depression, anger, and that really impacted a lot of things that i was doing and definitely evident in my grades.  my second semester grades were just deplorable and i wasnt wanting to study.  i wasnt wanting to prepare for finals as adequately as i needed to.
i tried to keep the best mentality as far as be as optimistic as possible so if it came to ignoring everything and isolating them to different parts of my thinking then okay but i try my best to keep the same as far as making sure that grades did come first and i think unfortunately in the back of my head i was letting my emotions take a toll on me.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  whats different?
definitely wasnt as smiley as i used to be.  everybodys always told me i have a great smile and im always smiling.  i didnt smile a lot and a lot of people started to see that.  i used to always dress really well and try to make sure that i never really left my room in sweatpants but there was a couple times when i would be seen in them like man you look like a wreck, did you have a rough day?  things like that and so my physical appearance really kind of wouldid let go at times.  
probablyactually thats an interesting one *laughs*.  uh probably my ability tomy, i guess, charisma.  i had a lot of interviews and so i tried to make sure that i was still me during those.  it became more of an inner suppression of emotions.  i tried to keep a very outgoing personality but i presented myself on the outside very different than what it was on the inside.
my thinking of people around mei had had a friendship down here that at the time i thought was very beneficial but over the course of that second semester it became very drastic and very toxic so to speak.  the friend that i had made, shed pushed me into a lot of situations that i wasnt completely comfortable in beforehand but at the time i was like okay i need to go do this type of thing and well shes doing it so im going to be there to support her and it pushed me into a lot more parties.  in high school i was never a partier and then all of a sudden i found myself going out on friday and saturday nights and that was something i was never really used to and never really wanted to do either.  by the end of it i was thinking well what kind of friendship should i have and i resorted back to my friend in alabama and kind of went from there and realized that the friendship that i did have with the girl down here was just not a good relationship.  i needed to think better and actually figure out who i wanted to be and who i really was and not what other people wanted me to be.
definitely putting other peoples needs before myself.  ive always been a very empathetic person.  ive always looked at people and their concerns always affect me in some way shape or form and seeing other people in pain or seeing other people that needed my help; id always put them ahead of me and thats still the same now but ive learned to at least be able to and show when i need to take care of myself over them.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?
it controlled my life definitely for a lot that first year.  that summer afterwards, when again, during that finals process i had a lot of cataclysmic things happening in my mind and id lost a dear friend to suicide and some other health factors but id kind of come into that summer with a couple things in mind.  i was involved with the regatta and i was involved with two jobs, being a waiter and working downtown cause i wanted to save up money for the following year and thats when i realized, thats when i met up with my friend xxx (first name)the friend in alabamaand as far as finding that sense of happiness again, as far as who i wanted to be.  my friendship with the girl down here it was very much a you cant do this or you dont want to do this or youre not going to do this type of thing and with xxx (first name) it was do what you want to do, what makes you happy.  i wasnt so worried about being somebody elses person as i was worried about being myself and allowing myself to be myself really helped a lot and kind of put me in a more positive mindset going into this past fall semester.    

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time of crisis?
i tried to keep as strong of a mental state as possible.  i found myself in very, kind of two place thinking.  i was thinking i was two different people.  my inner mental state was very different than what i present my physical state as but i alwaysim a control freak in the sense that ive always had to make sure that i have control over all situations as possible.  
i dont think it really affected others.  i guess ive always put others before myself.  i mean my big brother in my fraternity, for example, always needed help from me.  definitely with academics but then a lot of his personal issues hed come to me for support and for guidance and so i was always there for them and anyone else who would ask really.  i never really let it affect others as much as it affected myself.
definitely the constant pressure of having to help people and telling them i need to be there for them.  i think a lot of people took advantage of it than what i really should have.  i was there for a lot more people than who were there for me and a lot of it was because i never really asked for the support and i was always there to listen.  i was always there to guide.  i was always there to help and after a while it really did begin to weigh down and it got to the point where id look at a text message and then i would have to flip my phone over like i cant handle another text message right now from this person or i cant handle the phone call or im just so overwhelmed right now.  they need to deal with their own problems and it really took a lot to be able to do that cause ive never been able to say no.  my biggest weakness in life is that i cant say no to anyone or anything and after a while in realizing how much it kind of weighed on myself i was able to at least resort back.
in the immediate future, next semester im going through an ra selection process for reapplication so i definitely see myself as being an ra for the second year.  i was recentlyi recently accepted the position as the executive director of the regatta for next year as well so ive got to large responsibilities.  after this past semester and this past summer, ive been changing my mindset into you need to be focused on you.  i see myself putting myself first for once.  as an ra in charge of 75 residents and those especially this past week with finals theyve been coming to me a lot and ive noticed a lot of relationships all of sudden end and just the stresses of exams and grades and everything encompassing it and so ive been much better at delegating my time for them versus my time for myself cause one thing ive been talking with my supervisor about is that kind of priority as far as youre here for you and you need to make sure youre doing okay.
n youre doing a great job being there for your residents but when are you being there for yourself?  so definitely in the coming years and with my positions in higher responsibilities i see myself being much better at delegating time and being able to balance and communicate better.  my residents accept when my door is closed that im off limits for a temporary time and when its open theyre free to come and go as they please.  ive kind of sacrificed myself in giving them my cell phone number cause a lot of times theyll call me when in trouble versus the ra on duty.  one thing ive learned, at least as to hopefully be accepted as an ra again, to be able to communicate to them as hey this is the designated person at this time.  im off duty right now so you need to go to them and itll definitely be necessary when i am in those higher roles next year.  
ee myself in a much more positive mindset, communicating better with my parents as far as academics cause ive been focusing more on your responsibility right now is you.  you need to make sure your grades are good, you need to make sure that youre doing what you need to do and thats definitely helped me better.  im in a much stronger place than i ever was.  i dont want peoples hey are you coming out tonight? or oh we havent seen you come on, you know the whole lagging on really affect me anymore.  i dont let the constant pressure of hey come drink it off you know cause using alcohol did really kind of i guess cope so to speak.  it wasnt at all ever a good mindset to be in and ive seen how alcoholism has hurt my family and even hurt my friends even and so i dont let the want or even desire to affect me at all cause i never really had the want or desire to get belligerent drunk, forget anything.  
t was just a hey this is what people are doing but thats not necessarily what you need to do so i especially in the coming years i see myselfive switched my major into a much more better program than i wanted to go into and what i want to do with.  ive stopped thinking about wanting or what my parents always wanted for me or what my friends wanted for me or what my friends think of me really have an effect on what im going to do and so the degree path and track that im on now i think is much better for me and much healthier for me and so from that i see a much more brighter future from what was originally that i had my freshman year.
well i would say the story of my life comes in two, and i was talking about it earlier.  its one of the bad things in my life.  it was actually when my cousin was shot and that coincides with my heart condition that i had.  basically with that, why thats the story of my life, is because that played a major factor in almost an entire year of my life.  that was almost like depressed time.  i mean just i kind of had issues in school just because i missed a lot of school.  i mean, my cousin was almost like a brother because prior to the accident he actually lived with me and during that time i mean we wereand we had been close our entire lifebut he kind of has trouble at home.  he kind of had trouble at home so he moved in with us and then i really dont remember what happened but he just decided to leave.  as close as i was to him when he left and then i believe it was probably 3 to 4 weeks; 3 weeks to a month that he was shot after that and everything was changed.  i mean, everything that we kind of just did together just changed.
ection ii
ame events, yeah.  it would definitely be that.
i think i was probably moderately depressed.  i mean, like i said, i was being held out of sports because of my heart condition and one of the people i was closest to other than my own brother was severely injured and was in the hospital for up to i believe about a year.   
no.
i would say just the whole situation and having to try to balance everything that was going on with me, as in school, and just that whole situation; trying to figure out exactlyi mean there was no guarantee that my cousin was even going to live really.
i dont know.  a lot of times i meani would justi kind of was to my own during those times.  my relationships with my friends were kind of lesser because they were kind of doing sports and they were all really close and i was pretty much separate cause i was usually at the hospital.  i wasnt usually in class that often so really i just kind of was in solitude and eventually got to the point that i knew my cousin was going to be fine.  well, i knew that he was paralyzed but i knew that he was going to live.  i mean that made a big difference and just kind of, you know, solitude.
no.
ection iii: change
i would say that like my performance in school obviously has increased just because imi mean i really dont have anything going wrong right now so im pretty happy.  as far as stayed the same, probably my level of like the level that i care.  i mean ive always cared the same.  i still want to do well in school.
i would say as a whole my family has pretty much stayed the same cause we were really, i mean, that made us really close so that relationship has stayed the same but as far as friend relationships; they have gotten stronger, kind of built back up.
id say what kind of changed is taking things for granted.  i mean thats a pretty big thing to losethe ability to walk.  my cousin will never be able to walk again and thats kind of something that you dont realize you take for granted.  i mean obviously i wake up every morning and sit up on my bed and know im going to be able to walk away, do whatever i need to do, and thats not the same for him.  things are forever different, for him.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  whats stayed the same?  whats different?
well one thing thats changed is i did say that i was kind of depressed.  obviously im not anymore and, like i said, im happy.  as far as yeah i would just say im a lot happier now like things are different.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?
as far as school and stuff, that played a major control cause i was at the hospital a lot but just because i cared.  like i said because i was so close, i cared so much, and that had control of my life just because i was always there.  that was either always on my mindit was just that i was always there, pretty much.  it was always on my mind or i was actually physically there.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time of crisis?
i would say not very well.  i mean, it was just a lot.  it was a lot thrown at once cause it was just abrupt.  i mean one morning i got a phone call, saying that he was in the hospital.  no one knew what was going on, no one knew why until we actually got there so i would say that justi mean i dont really know.
i would say they werent really.  my parents knew.  my parents obviously helped me kind ofi talked to my mom a long time about that and same with my dad but i would say as far as everyone else, my brother and sister; they had their own thoughts.  they kind of had the same thing.  they werenti mean they were close to my cousin and you cant really say that familys not closebut me, i mean its different from me.  my cousin was about the same age as me.  my brother and sister are all younger than me.
id say they really didnt just because i was so like on my own in that sense that id say really no outside effect on my mental state besides my parents.  they kind of helped me cope and my mom kind of went through the same thing.  i mean that is her nephew but just kind of being able to relate to my parents.
a lot.  i think i have a lot ahead of myself.  i actually want to be a cardiologist and that kind of goes along with my heart condition that was kind of happening so that makes me work harder for that, truthfully but as far as dreams yeah thats my ultimate dream; thats what i see ahead of myself.
well lets start out with the earliest i can remember--id say its probably my fourth birthday party at my house and i remember all of my friends coming over cause we had a big house and we all played out in the field.  we had like a mini baseball field out there and uh thats probably the earliest that i can remember from my life story.  i grew up in a small town and its called xxx (town name), indiana.  its over by the ohio line and i know no ones really heard of it so its really different living in xxx (tow name), going to school, and i like it but i like living in the country too.  im going to be a business major for kelley (school of business) and before i came to college, i went to xxx (high school name) and graduated with academic honors and technical honors.  i played high school baseball for 3 years and ive played baseball since i was about 3 or 4 years old, tee ball area, so thats been the main part of my life. id say that was like the only thing that i did during my summers and stuff cause i really didnt have any free time and for my hobbies right now id say i just hang out with friends, play some video games, and hunt.  thats about it.
ection ii
i dont know if this is consideredi dont know sometimes when im stressed at school i get like headaches.  like its not reallyits just like headaches like from thinking so hard.
no i mean theyre not all too bad.  its a lot of just little ones.
exhausted.
not really.
all of like, a lot of work like how college is with a lot of work due at once and all the exams youve got to study for.
i usually just take some ibuprofen and just take a break from my school work, just set it aside for a little while until i start feeling better.
i dont know, probably.
ection iii: change
well its a little bit lazier cause i dont feel like doing as much and i would just say my performance isnt as good, kind of slacking. 
i think im still going to give my best but the outcome just might not be the same.
when i get these headaches, usually i just dont even want to talk to anybody.  i just like to just chill out and watch tv.
i mean i still like to be around them but sometimes i just need to be myself if it gets too bad.
i get like cranky, probably that and annoyed.  thats probably about it.
i still like to joke around and have a good time and be around friends.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  whats different?
its hard to stay focused.  you start thinking about all sorts of other things besides what youre trying to think about.  id say thats probably ab out it.
whats the same about the way you think and feel (emotions) whenever you get these headaches?
it always has me thinking maybe not about the things i should be thinking about so lets say like school work.  i mean i should be thinking about that but i do everything but think about that.
yeah kind of *laughs*.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways do these headaches control your life?
i try not to let them control my life.  i just let them pass through and just go on with my life.  i mean its not like theyre overpowering.  i just have got to get through some different things and get back to doing what i was doing before.
no.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during these headaches?
pretty easy.
it just depends on how i act around them.  i mean if i would seem to snap at them, just be annoyed, i feel like theyd wonder why like think they did something wrong.
what do you mean by that?
i dont know.  not really a big impact i guess.  i mean i wouldnt think theyd have any impact on it.
i mean id hope to see myself as a graduate from here with a kelley degree and maybe running or operating a business and making good money with a family.
when i was little, my parents got divorced when i was younger so i lived with my mom for most of the time.  we went on vacation with our family every summer to delaware and we started doing that ever since i was a baby.  as i got older, i started spending time with both of my parents and would still go on vacations with my mom but would also do vacations with my dad.  we went to xxx (tow name) a couple times for vacation but also would keep going back to delaware.  my parents fought a lot when i was younger but as i got older it got better cause they didnt have to deal with each other as much.  once i got into grade school, i stayed at the same school up until i graduated high school.  i lived in a small town so it was a small town school, everybody knew everybody.
y parents didnt live far away from each other so i could go back and forth as much as i wanted.  it was just a 20 minute drive.  once i got my license, i started driving a lot more so i started spending more time at my dads.  up until my license to graduation i spent most of my time at my dads, not with my mom anymore.  throughout high school, i traveled back and forth between the town where i went to school and where my dad lived.  once i had graduated high school, i lived with my dad for a while and moved onto xxx (college name) and started living off campus here, just right off campus, and then started taking my nursing classes here.  thats about it, just the gist of my life.
ection ii
i lost both of my great grandparents within a month of each other last semester, so that was difficult, and then back when i was younger i lost my grandpa who i was really close to.  those were two really stressful times in my life.
frustrated because i still had to stay on campus and take my finals and so i couldnt go to either one of their funerals so i was frustrated about it.
no, i was just mad about it.
my dad and my grandma used to get in fights all the time about stupid things so that was always stressful cause it happened when i was younger and i didnt know how to handle it back then.
not having the option, like not being able to do what i thought i should be doing.
i just kind of moved on.  my family knew its what i had to do so it wasnt like anyone thought i had done wrong so they just kind of moved on with it.  i mean there was nothing i could do.
if i lost my other grandparent and then the same kind of thing happened like i couldnt make it because of school like that would be about it.
ection iii: change
mostly stayed the same.
ince then, maybe ive started spending more time with my friends down here maybe but not really.  maybe just spend more time with friends.
no, not really.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  
i might have changed my opinion on how i would do things if i would have still stayed here or like figured out or worked harder in trying to work out ways i could have went and got out of being here.  so just changed the way i went about doing things.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?
it was just on my mind.  it was just something i was thinking about but that was about it.  i still had to focus on school so i couldnt really stress about it as much as i probably could have.
and tried to push that aside as much as i could.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during this time?
pretty well.  i mean it didnt affect my finals or anything.  it wasnti dont know.  i got through it pretty decent. 
i think it upset my parents that like i was upset because i couldnt go and theres nothing they could do either so my family was upset that i was so upset about it.
they just all told me that they knew my grandparents would want me to be staying here and getting the education i worked hard for so they just encouraged me to keep going.
hopefully graduating from here with nursing from xxx (college name).
well i guess the story of my life, from what i can remember, started i think it was like not too long after 9/11 so it was probably around 2001, 2002.  i was a little kid of course, probably 5 or 6 and about to go to my first first grade day.  i ended up using the restroom in my pants cause i was a little frightened and of course my mom had already went to work but her friend was getting me off to school.  well she had already locked the door and we were waiting outside so we were locked out of the house and so he took me to the neighbors house, helped me get cleaned up and everything, took me, got me new clothes, got me all cleaned up and then took me to school and thats how he got a key to the house and later on became my stepdad so thats about as far as i remember.  from then on, we moved fromwe were living in xxx (town name) at the timewe moved from xxx (town name) to somewhere between xxx (town name) and xxx (county name), around the xxx (town name), xxx (town name) area.
they got married not too long after we moved there so i was probably 8 at the time.  a year later, my little brother was bornxxx (first name), awesome little guy.  i broke my foot that year, the year that he was born.  that was another embarrassing moment.  i was on a fishing trip and i was running back to the truck to try to pick something up and i was looking down at the ground at xxx (lake name), trying to avoid goose poop because i was little and as soon as i looked up there was a parking beam and i ran face first into that, fell bad, twisted my foot, broke that.  beyond that, i was an as and bs student around the time.  i guess the next thing is we moved to xxx (town name), which is by far the best place i ever lived, love it.  i went to xxx (elementary school name) for my 5th grade year, ended up breaking my finger there but surgery got it all good.
tarted marching band my 8th grade year, which, once again, was one of the best things i ever did.  it was probably the start of me becoming a band geek.  ever since then ive just loved music, started saxophone that year and my friend got me in the marching band so you know.  i of course had a high school sweetheart, started dating at the end of the 8th grade year so right around that time we dated for a little over a year and the reason that we broke up is because my stepdad was working at a chemical plant, a xxx (chemical agent plant name).  they were disposing of the vx in whatever way and when that plant shut down because they were finished with their job; we ended up moving to washington d.c. so me and her broke up.  it was very long and drawn out.  it shouldnt have been. 
we stayed about 3 months there.  that was actually around the time, between freshman and sophomore year, that was around the time that d.c. had the earthquake.  d.c. had the earthquake on the last day that we were staying there then got hit with a hurricane a couple days later so that was interesting.  good thing we moved right in time.  xxx (tow n name), virginia, which is technically where we were staying, but of course d.c is right around the corner; absolutely gorgeous, absolutely gorgeous.  everything there; the museums and everything theyre all free, great place to go learn.  it was really cool.  then we moved to this very, very, very small town in ohio.  tiniest place ive ever seen.  my graduating class, at the time, was around 50 so that was yeah.  we moved out there because the contract that he had, that my stepdad had, in washington d.c. they couldnt guarantee him a contract.  
he was just kind of doingyou know it was around the time that the loan cap or something like that was being worked on.  anyway, they were debating on how much money they were going to put or that they were going to borrow from china so that always puts a damper on things.  but anyway, since they couldnt guarantee him a contract he took the contract in xxx (town name), ohio so we lived in that tiny town and yeah there i started becoming instead of an a, b student; i was straight as so that was nice.  not sure that that was the best education cause it was a very small town; very, very out in the middle of nowhere.  lets seemy sophomore year i spent at the school itself which was attached to the elementary school, interestingly enough.  it was high school, middle school, elementary all in one building and then my junior year i went to a vocational school, took all my classes over there which was phenomenal.
became a nurse aid, became a phlebotomist, still straight as over there, and did a few things with skill us; thats an organization that promotes vocational learning.  i didnt run for anything but i was a voting delegate so i was helping our people get elected into the counsel or whatever you want to call it.  then of course my senior year i was putting in applications for all kinds of different schools but i wanted to come to xxx (college name) the most because its back home.  ohio wasnt a good place for me but i wanted to come back home.  my dad still lives on the east side and so i figured id move in with him.  once i got my acceptance letter, i was very excited, very excited.  i called just about everybody i knew and then yeah.  graduation was short, sweet.  we walked through and it probably took about an hour, hour and a half, for everything even though so many speeches that did not need to be made were made.  then moved to indiana and now im here.  thats about it.
ection ii
i cant really think of anything that was too hard.  of course, high school had a few breakups so id say the biggest hardship ive had recently was a breakup with well my most recent ex.  that was about a year ago.  we were at a dance for the vocational school and we were having our fun on the dance floor, then a couple of her friends showed up and started dancing with us.  so we were dancing and talking, having fun.  there were three friends; there was a couple, of course they were together, and there was this other guy i hadnt seen before but he didnt have a date.  so we were talking about dancing and how much fun we were having and then he said something to the meaning of i wish i could dance but i dont have a date and as if on cue my girlfriend at the time stopped dancing with me and started grinding on this other man so that was the end of that.  it was a little hard at first, of course, but i got over it pretty quickly.  its alright.
well there for a while i was angry all the time, of course.  for about a week or two i was just angry at everything and then after that, after the couple of weeks, a friend of mine helped me out.  hes by far the best friend ive had.  he helped me out, hooked me up with somebody, we had our fun, and after that its been pretty easy going.  i let it go pretty quick.
definitely, definitely.  that high school sweetheart; whenever me and her broke up i was already in xxx (town name), virginia and that was a tough time but the thing that intensified it not so much of it being the breakup but my grandma died.  that was around the time that my grandma died.  she was my stepdads mother but out of all my grandparents she was by far the best.  as old as she was, she would go to every sporting event for every grandchild; every great grandchild and she had a lot of grandkids.  se he was always there for the family, always did family events: easter was there, christmas, thanksgiving, any holiday.  i mean i think at one point she even did like a presidents day thing just cause the kids were out of school so that was about the hardest its been because not that long after she died, actually probably 2 or 3 days, i found out that my girlfriend was cheating on me.  yeah a friend of mine saw her kiss somebody else and when i confronted her she said no.  when i confronted him, he said yes and so then after that the story got jumbled and she couldnt get her lines straight so it was clear that it wasnt going to work out.
probably just the fact that i saw it right in front of me.  i mean that was awful, of course id had a few relationships between my high school sweetheart and my most recent breakup but the rest of them werent really as serious so the only serious relationship i was in prior to the most recent one was when i found out she was cheating on me so then to see my most recentto see her grind on somebody else was justi mean right in front of me.  so yeah thats probably what made it the hardest. 
probably not the most healthy way, but like i said my best friend helped me out.  he hooked me up with somebody and it was an old friend of his.  they hadnt done anything but he knew she was on the market but she wasnt really looking for a relationship so me and her had our fun for a while and then go over our own exes so i guess just kind of used each other as rebounds so to speak but it worked out.  not going to say it was the most healthy way in the world but helped out as much as it could.
im not sure what you mean.
like something that has happened to me that i was in a similar state or something that i think could happen?
i mean yeah definitely cause like i said its the second time that ive found somebody that was lying to me and that so yeah its kind of been a worry really, honestly, but yeah.  i could definitely imagine it.
ection iii: change
i guess my classes that i was really into like the phlebotomy, nurse aid classes; those ones i still did as well as usual but it seemed like the rest of my classes like the chemistry, english, mathi just kind of brushed them off.  my grades dropped for a while but then after i got over her they came back up.
yeah like i said the rest of my stuff just kind of dropped off.  i guess i didnt really have as much of a work ethic for a while after that.  before i would study a lot for my chemistry and i thought i did some pretty great essays before that but for a while i just wanted to go through the motions, pass the class.
we had a few friends that were her friends more than mine but we were still friends nonetheless.  of course i stopped talking to them, they stopped talking to me; that kind of thing.  i think my family life actually got a little better after that cause after we broke up i realized she was a little controlling and was kind of i dont know.  it was a lot different looking back on it than anything i thought i felt during the relationship so i started talking to the family more, spending more time with them.  yeah thats the thing i think even my coworkers and things even said i was in a better mood, course after i got cheered up and everything.
i guess during it not really but after it i still talked to the friends of mine that were more my friends of course and still have my best friend.  nothing really changed there but there for a while i was kind of withdrawn but like i said i got back to it.
like i said i was pretty withdrawn.  i didnt like going places as much.  i did stay at home and spend more time with the family, which was good in the family aspect of it but during the breakup with my friends; it wasnt as good for them because i didnt really spend any time with them except for my best friend.
i dont know.  i mean i guess iit just seemed all different, really.  just during the whole thing, of course prior i thought i was a pretty happy person but during it it just seemed like i wasnt as happy, wasnt as fun.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  what changed?
during that time, i kind of thought that everybody was lying to me.  i definitely, definitely had some trust issues there, not going to lie.  there were a few of my friends that i just got suspicious about for really no reason.  i mean i had absolutely no reason to be suspicious of anything they said and even if they did lie to me for the things that i was suspicious about; it wouldnt have affected me.  i was sad.  i was yeah sad, withdrawn, kind of stayed at home.  i was happy when i was around my family but going back to my room or whatever when im going to bed; it was a little sad.  i would start thinking about her and everything that happened.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  what stayed the same?
well really i only think about work ethic, not towards those other classes like i said but towards the phlebotomy, nurse aid.  i cared for my patients the same way.  i didnt slack off any there.  whenever we were doing our phlebotomy classes, the students that i would draw blood from i didnt slack off there any.  i think my work ethic towards those areas stayed about the same.
it was a really weird time.  it really was.  i cant think of anything else.  it was pretty weird.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did your most recent breakup control your life?
i didnt go out as much.  like i said, i developed some trust issues for a while and i think in some ways that still might be kind of a thing.  im a lot more guarded, definitely, and if i do notice that someone is lying to me or that their story just doesnt add up; i dont hesitate anymore to call it out.  i used to but now its just i dont like to waste my time with it.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during your most recent breakup?
i mean i cant say i went the self-harm route or anything like that but immediately i was pretty ticked.  it was like i couldnt really control it.  actually i pulled her away from him and i wasnt very aggressive or anything, i didnt hurt her, but i pulled her away and was kind of raising my voice quite a bit, yelling like what the hell are you doing; things like that.  i drove her home pretty quickly.  i wasnt going to give it time to just let it slide by so at that point i couldnt really control it very much at all.  it was just i knew what was going to happen.  i knew i wasnt going to let this go by the wayside and just everything be all happy.  but yeah thatsthe rest of the time i cant say it was really anything out of the normal for what would have happened to anybody else that was in that situation and like i said i was sad and everything.
my friends didnt see me as much so my family got to see me a lot more.  that was good.  it seemed like we were a little bit happier than usual so i think they liked being able to see me more and liked me not having another obligation.
my best friend definitely influenced it.  he was actually the one to help me out, like i said, get me out of the rut.  hei cant really remember exactly what he said.  he kept with me.  he told me everything was going to be alright and me and him talked about it a lot.  he definitely made sure to help me out as far as keeping it on my mind.  i mean really i knew that if i just would have forgot about that nightif i would have forgot about what happened or stopped thinking about itthen i would have gone back to her.  we would have gotten back together.  anytime i would say something about that he would stop me and go whoa youve got to think about this for a second so that definitely helped me out.  that definitely changed my mind about what i would have done.
i want to be a doctor.  im not sure what type yet, but i will be.  down the road of course im going to have a wife and kids but i think thatll probably have to wait until after med school.  definitely want to be able to provide for my family; thats the number one reason to be a doctor and second is because i just love the medical field.  im not sure when ill retire but i do have a house in mind.  i have my own design that its just never going to change, no matter where im living; whether it be here, california, canada; doesnt matter.  ive got my house and even if it takes me until i retired i will build it eventually.
o the story of my lifei was born in england.   ive lived there for 7 and  years of my life and with that my mother met a man online in america after her first divorce.  we spent a couple of years just single and stuff like that so she met him online, he brought us over 3 times to america and on the 3rd time he actually flew back with us to england.  he spent a couple years there and we moved here when i was 7 and , kind of stayed around, finally got a house, and then it was an 8 year, really kind of bad relationship that finally got out of that.  then we spent some time poverty stricken, homelessness, and times like that and then spent a couple years like that then finally my mom met another guy.  his names xxx (first name) and hes her current husband actually.  he brought us into his house and stuff like that and really just giving the tools that i needed to be where i am now today.  thats kind of the story of my life.  its pretty self-explanatory and right to the point.
ection ii
o mom was in france, fatherxxx (first name)--was down in mexico at our summer house down there and i woke up to one of my dogs dead.  it died of natural causes, just threw up in its mouth, chocked on it, and died in the night so of course youve got to get through all past the mourning process and stuff like that.  then after that calling, notifying the parents and letting them know whats happened so it was my moms dog so she took it pretty hard that she wasnt there for it to happen.  i was just kind of able to get past the bad stage, get past all the crying and i had to deal with it cause i still had 3 other dogs wondering what the heck was in the house cause i seemed all solemn and down at first before i saw the actual body and the smell in the house was pretty horrific in the morning but i was able to put my work boots on, get a shovel, and start digging the grave.
y sister actually came over with her girlfriend and was able to comfort me and stuff like that.  i didnt really need much comfort but they were there, just kind of like everything like that and in the end i was told i handled it pretty maturely.  of course i was crying because i felt really guilty that it died in my presence, under my watch, but and then i couldnt do anything about it.  
well yeah that would be mostly probably the second divorce and then being kicked out of the house, having to move in a matter of 3 days to a very lower level house with my sister, my mom, me and 3 of her dogs.  i mean we had 10 dogs at the time so we had to give up a whole bunch that we didnt want to give up cause i mean they were part of the family and in the end it was very stressful.  i mean we pretty much moved our whole lives in a matter of 2 or 3 days, had a lot of decisions made even though my uncle offered to bring us back to england and stuff like that so we made a lot of decisions and stuff like that and that was the start of a pretty down part of the life before it got brought back up.
that was 7 years ago, maybe 6; 5 to 7 years ago.  i cant really6 years ago cause ive been with the third dad i guess you could say for 5 years.
14; 13 ish.
the mental state was not good.  it was kind of to the point where there was a point of no return.  i mean the reason the relationship was bad was because it was a physically abusive relationship so cops called multiple times.  that pretty much puts things the way it is.  that was probably the day that i finally had to start fending for myself.  mom couldnt do it anymore; sister was actually going off the rails.  i mean we used to be side together, a really good brother and sister, and thats when she started to go down a dark path and still is pulling herself out of it today.  i dont really have that much contact with her because of that and mom had to do her job plus a second job plus she was also actually doing her bachelors degree at the time so that was finally when i had to go myself and everything like that so it was just tough.  i mean it was tough.  i had to go through school, had just moved schools and because of that move and because i couldnt stay in the same school system cause i didnt have the right address so i had to go to a different school system and stuff like that so i had to go back and forth multiple times until finally having to pretty much fend for myself, start living for myself and start being myself, not having any outside help from that.  i had to take on a lot of responsibility, a lot of responsibility.
just the i mean--young; the trauma of what happened.  i mean i was hit pretty bad.  i mean its just kind of that depressing state.  this was the second time, i didnt remember the first time, but the second time just the feeling of hopelessness and i mean we really didnt have anywhere to go and actually i did get to go see a psychiatrist a couple times with that.  i got put on pills and i got off of them after that.  they destroyed my energy levels and anything like that and in the end it was just kind of having toi mean it was the thought that im now on my own and going to be who im going to be who im going to be now.  i have to start my life on the spot, on my own, from here on out so thats where i kind of started taking care of myself and doing things for myself cause i didnt have any outside help cause there was none there.      
it was tough, a lot of emotionali mean its traumatizing, stuff like that.  ive kind of spent time and i kind of wanted to repress that out of my mind but there was a time i brought it back into my mind and it really kind of nailed the point where i finally started like i switched.  it was the night where mom came back from college, after her long day and stuff like that, and she just kind of sat down on my bed and cried and shes like everybody depends on her to be their rock in the world and she doesnt have a rock and she kind of looked at me all teary eyed and said will you be my rock?  that was when i realized that, you know, this is not just all about me now.  this is about pulling another person through this with me and helping them out at the same time because i mean we were dealing with legal things with my sister and also maybe not having enough to eat.  i mean i started selling, pawning my stuff to put food on the table and stuff like that.
no and i really dont want to.  i mean being there, dont really want to go back to it and if i do i guess im going to be a little better prepared because ill know what to do but at the same time i dont really want to think about it.  i dont want to go back there.
ection iii: change
different was definitely school.  i mean i pretty much flunked all my classes my first semester of my freshman year going through this, but at the same time i still was involved in extracurricular activities so i wasnt like drawing myself out of it.  i was just struggling because i didnt have the right mindset.  i didnt have the push from the parents and stuff like that but i mean the next semester seems like wed gotten to the new household with a new father figure and stuff like that and my grades jumped straight to as.  i was able to exempt that off my application to this college.  what stayed the same was probably just you know the loneliness, stuff like that.  i mean i still feel lonely here and there.  
hanging that.  its a road to take a path to get through but other than that i mean things are changing and a lot of things stayed the same.  i mean i had to stay for myself.  im still myself.  im still fending for myself.  im in the world now for myself and so difference is im trying to bring someone into my world also and being part of her world, which is kind of nice too, but yeah its just a lot of changes like i do still feel anxious sometimes or i dont know what to think sometimes or draw back and put the wall up and stuff like that but its a lot of changes and its a lot of things and stuff to think about in the process in the end but things are starting to go in the right path.
oh my gosh.  so during that time, there were no friendships.  i got back from school, stayed in the house.  i didnt go anywhere.  i just didnt want to go anywhere.  i mean i had a lot of stuff to do at home by myself.  i wanted to be by myself and do that kind of stuff.  now its kind of sometimes the same where i just want to be by myself, stuff like that, but im a very generous, friendly person people tell me.  ive got a lot of energy and i get around pretty well, a lot of people know me.  im in a lot of clubs and organizations and i do a lot of stuff trying to put myself out there at the same time.  i didnt have any relationships back then.  i couldnt care for them.  now im trying to start a really good one that ive known this person for a while.  
y and stuff like that; its i guess you could say that back then the connection between my mom and i wasnt really that strong but now it is but its not the same strong as like i have to call her all the time and stuff like that.  its an emotional strong that like we can lean on each other if we need to.  my sister was out of the picture by that time so i guess thats changed cause were starting to bring her back into it, even though she keeps showing the same behavior and kind of repelling us.  shes my sister so i kind of have to accept her and stuff so thats starting to be different.  i mean a lot is completely different; relationships and family.  back from that time to this time; it was a big difference.
well i would say i was very introverted.  i was very scared.  i judged everything i did.  i would always have back-up plans and stuff like that.  i mean some of thats the same i guess i would say but now i do get out.  im not as introverted as i was.  im pretty good at extroverted and stuff like that.  i mean ive even applied for an ra position, trying to get out there and stuff like that.  im not afraid or scared to go into situations anymore like with crowds and stuff like that.  i can actuallyim able to go in and control the crowd and just because im loud and noisy enough that i get peoples attention.  its simple like that.  i was very nervous talking to people and stuff like that and even to adults but now ive found its really easy to talk to adults and also easy to talk to people.  
the only problem that i have talking to anybody my age is that i have to go down and talk to them so thats honestly why i have more friends that are girls because theyre a little bit more mature than guys and stuff like that so i had to drop a level to get to the guys, which really sucks but i do it sometimes just to feel apart and stuff like that.  i mean its always fun to do that but going up to the level of older adults is really fun to do and just personality; i think my personality has completely taken a 180.  i mean i used to be down and stuff like that but now im looking into the future and im really excited to be doing what im going to be doing and stuff like that and just making sure that i keep on the right path and dont stray off onto something bad again.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  whats stayed the same?  whats different?
i dont thinki guess you could say ability to think was im better able to think more now cause im able to think on my toes.  apparently im a really good problem solver and stuff like that.  i guess kind of putting myself, being through that has given me definitely the mindset that i have to think of  possibilities and answers very quickly and again pick the right one in the end so ive mentioned about that before but i guess though just on the regular basis and stuff like that.   ive always been the same mental uh like iq and stuff like that.  i dont know what to say perfectly for that but ive always been in the same state and that kind of kid thats done well in school that doesnt even have to open a book so i dont really have to worry about that but emotionally definitely has changed.  i mean definitely from that time to this time; completely different. 
n i just have different views on life, more positive.  i do sink back now and then to the negatives but thats just a quick run or a quick play on my saxophone that brings me right back up and its funny because i even got mentioned.  we were up in xxx (city name) this past sunday and uh we had two cars.  one car is keyless so you just push the start but the key was in the ignition so it ran down the whole battery of the car so we had to jump it and stuff like that.  everyone was crappy cause theyre outside in the cold and the wind and the blizzard and stuff like that and im jumping around, thinking this is the greatest adventure ever.  my girlfriend thought it was the coolest thing ever.  she thought it was awesome.  its just like thinking of little things as positive and you canti guess that back then i looked at everything negatively.  
now i look at everything as a positive adventure.  even though the car had to be jumped and stuff like that; that was still an adventure or something that you might not ever get to do again.  will i ever be stuck again in xxx (city name), trying to jump a car in the middle of a blizzard?  no probably not so why not seize that adventure and just move on, have fun with life.  i mean every day that ievery second that i talk here is something ill never get back so its a good experience.  its fun; lets do it so dont hold back.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?
i mean well especially where we were i really couldnt do much more.  i mean im surprised i was able to do marching band at the time when we had to go on the stipends and stuff with the school but mom could barely pay for it.  i mean the school lunches were paid for so i guess moneys always a big issue when you dont have it.  i wasnt able to go out and do a whole bunch of stuff because i didnt have the money to do it, go hang out with friends and stuff like that cause maybe i didnt have time at the end of the day to do it cause i was having to take care of the animals at home or take care of stuff to do at home or take care of myself or take care of my mother or anything i had to take care of.  so i guess i didnt really have the time to do much stuff.  i wanted to work when i was that young but my mom wouldnt allow me to work because she knew that i had to do stuff for myself so in the end it was just i probably missed out on a lot of opportunities that most kids have.  just seeing the kids that have a stable family and stuff like that have stuck with something and really have gone through like pretty, not easily but way differently than me and its always interesting to me cause i saw that this past weekend.  
n i saw two families at a table that were friends and id never seen that before.  it was very weird to me and i felt very alienated in the situation cause ive never had that before.  it was completely a new world.  i mean that was even a quick text to my mom like hey im kind of alienated right now.  i dont know what to do and in the end it was like this isnt normal to me but its normal to someone else and its kind of like you have to, not accept that as normal but just be a part of it.  in the end, i was able to accept it and be a part of it and be fine but when i first saw it it was very weird and it just went against everything that i had learned in the past so it was weird; promise you that *laughs*.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time of crisis?
first off, not at all.  i kind of just like got pushed and shoved around.  i mean i didnt know.  i didnt have my feet in the ground yet but over time i was able to stick my feet in the ground and control it.  the third time i saw my psychologist i told her that i didnt want to be labeled anymore and i walked out of the room and so that was me ending that thing.  i mean i stopped the pills after one and a half weeks and in the end i wasfirst off i wasnt able to control it but in the end i was able to just take control of my depression and throw it out the window.  it took time, of course, but i was able just to get it out of there and be fine.
i guess the only people that i had contact with were a couple friends at school and stuff like that but they really barely knew what was going on at home cause i didnt allow them to.  family members were in the same boat as me so we were all on the same level so i dont think others were really affected by my mental level except like but i guess you could say that when i started to show that i was moving forward; i allowed my mom to see that i was moving forward and she jumped on line with me.  that was a kind of push and pull off each other so i guess that could be affecting others but other than that it waswe were all on the same level at that time so well just have to fight together.
well of course my mom.  i mean she was working two jobs and she even graduated with a 3.998 from her college and you know thats unheard of and she was working a full-time job, a part-time job, and doing that plus taking care of one kid at home  that was me and worrying about one other kid going off the tracks.  so i mean that was pretty something to look at.  that was something i learned off of and i leaned to and always looked at and stuff like that and i mean it was always kind of said that we hit rock bottom so we have to work up from there so thats how i viewed it in the end.
oh gosh.  i mean i cant really say that for sure cause ive realized now that time will tell.  hopefully a successful college career, getting into the job of this career that i would like to get into, keep moving forward with that, and getting farther into that and maybe farther up into the positions.  hopefully getting the job that solidifies that ill be able to get a nice house like maybe, you know, if i have a girlfriend/fianc/wife thats the time im able to support her at the same time shes able to support me and just in the end not have to worry about money.  you know be able to have a savings account for backup money or just be able to live and go through life and not have to worry about stuff, all the bad stuff happening, and if it does show up then we have the money to take care of it and have a nice house and have a dog and drive a nice car and stuff like that; that kind of stuff.  it just gets to the point where life is easy but at the same time not cause the jobs not going to be easy that im looking into but like just not having to worry as much because im done worrying in life.  i just want to find the position in life where i dont really have to worry as much and i can just finally settle down and relax and not have to move again.
im trying to think uh the earliest memory that i can recall is i remember being at an aquarium with my mom and dad.  i also remember the times with my dad growing up a lot more than the times with my mom.  i think they might have been more meaningful; thats why they stuck around more.   like camping trips, some canoeing trips, stuff like thats coming to mind.  i remember also that my parents were never married growing up so growing up in a split house like i remember never having a room that i could call mine.  growing up, i remember getting into skateboarding as early as second grade i want to say.  that continued up until about all through middle school up until high school, and then i started getting into sports a lot more.  sports kind of like overtook my life then and there, dedicated myself to wrestling.  all the memories of that are fun times, fun times and bad times.  im trying to think uh high school then what came after was college, xxx (community college name) my freshman year.  i didnt know what i wanted to do, where i wanted to go in life and eventually found herron school of art, decided to dedicate my life to art and i think thats where im at now.
ection ii
yeah definitely.  the latest i had a friend pass away this year who i met first semester.  he died of an overdose and that was prettyi think the devastating part about that was i saw it coming.  i really didnt do much to help with that, which i should have.  theres a lot of guilt with that.  relationships uh there has been this girl that ive been seeing this whole year and what really kind of uh the hardships about that i do really like her, i love her actually, but with everything else going on right now with family, school, financial issues; its really hard to dedicate myself to her which causes some problems.  i did get out of a 2 year relationship about a year and a half ago which wasi wouldnt say it was hard just different, you know, when youre with someone that long.  we broke up my freshman year of college so then experiencing college as like a single life was different.  i guess i dont want to say like hardships, but it was definitely different.  i think that might be it within the last 2 years.
i think definitely the relationship i have with my girlfriend now, just the fact that i met her first semester last semester and since then weve been together but the ups and downs that comes with relationships.  i have a tendency to be really hard on myself and i tend to take my actions the hard way.  i guess im hard on myself so being with her and you know seeing that im upsetting her or not doing the things that i should be doingi just tear myself up a lot so i think that with the combination of everything else really kind of brings me down.
definitely it got worse uh especially i want to say the start of this first semester.  i just noticed i wasnt really the same.  i wasnt xxx (first name), you know, and it took me a while to finally kind of realize that i was going through some blues with the weather and my attitudes and feelings and all that but yeah i definitely noticed it.  i got a little bit of help here and there and im sorry i forget the question.
oh okay.  definitely yeah especially im taking a psychology class this semester and being in that class and learning the different theories and behavioral types and stuff; it really has ahelps me better understand whats going on and like how i need to assess things i guess in that way.
no.  i mean ive had stress here and there.  ive had it build up, you know.  i think this year and the sequencing of the events that happened has really been like the worst that ive ever felt.
with my friend passing away, regret.  with relationships, im almost like i want to put myself on a pedestal and when i try to be someone that i want to be, you know, that better man or individual and i cant meet those requirements i tend to beat myself up a lot and i think that really brings me down cause im always asking myself why couldnt i do this or do this blah blah blah.  i think those are probably the main ones.
yep.  i started going to the caps (counseling and psychological services) center for a little bit.  i noticed my mood greatly increased when i started going outside more; thats also helped with the summer coming around.  ive been riding my bike a lot more.  i try to skateboard or at least ride my bike everyday just because it helps me just get my mind off everything and really keeps me up.  talking; i feel like i would always seclude myself from others and not want to talk about all this but after understanding whats kind of  going onwell not fully understanding but having a better understandingi guess im trying to work that out with talking to other friends and family.
i mean i feel like i could.  i feel like it could always be worse.  another thing is when i beat myself up i mean compared to a lot of people i might be better off like financially or whatever and i guess that really upsets me that when i do feel down on myself that i should be happy for what i have and stuff like that.
ection iii: change
a lot of it has changed.  the beginning of i guess before spring break is when i kind of hit rock bottom; i was not showing up to classes, was not turning my work in on time.  that was probably like the biggest almost like shock to me because one day i just looked over and noticed how much homework i had to do and i was like xxx (first name) youve got to get this stuff done so like yeah the schoolwork definitely.  i did have two part-time jobs.  well i guess technically i still do.  one of them i told i needed some time off cause i was going through some problems so that i had some time off from that so i guess that job situation has changed.  i guess something that changed for the better going through all this different thoughts and crazy feelings and stuff, trying to find a purpose in life and i feel like art has become my purpose in life and im trying to live towards that.
ive noticed as ive went downhill i want to be alone.  i dont want to hang out with my friends or if i do its only in rare periods of time.  ive noticed with my family i dont talk to them as much and when i do it seems like im needy.  it seems like im asking for things.  im never just like calling to say hi.  i always feel like im calling to ask for something or get some help with whatever.  socially, yeah being at school i dont want to talk to anybody.  i put my headphones in and kind of just be in my own little world and also i guess i feel like i might have a little bit of bipolar disorder of some sort just because like today wasnt a great example like today i woke up and i did not want to do anything.  i did not want to go to class.  i did not want to draw.  i didnt want to do anything except for just lie in bed but yesterday was perfectly fine.  i was the exact opposite.  i was wanting to get my homework done, trying to get it all done before i went to bed.  i guess thats been another change too. 
definitely like im very moody.  i feel like i have mood swings.  ive noticed my mood has kind of my behavior ive been a lot more relaxed, you know, especially coming to college ive been thinking a lot about like religion and just all the other kind of big talks about in life and coming to college and understanding theres other things out there and trying to reach out and i researched those things.  i dont want to say like opened up my mind but i kind of feel more relaxed.  i feel more open minded.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  whats stayed the same?  whats different?
ive been reflecting a lot on myself and i feel like this has all started since i moved down here to xxx (city name), which was this last semester, and ive noticed im maturing.  im starting to think a lot more before i act which before i was always acting before i thought.  i can tell im starting to think critically.  im thinking logically whereas before i would always stick to morals i didnt necessarily believe in but just because i was raised on those thats what i would do so ive been trying to think a lot more logically.  im trying to understand more.  ive been reflecting a lot; thats been a big one too.  i dont think i ever really used to do that so now im noticing that ill look back on what ive said or how i acted towards other people on certain days or whatever and kind of critique myself on like why i was doing this or what was the purpose and stuff like that.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did all of these things that have been going on with you control your life?
it made me feel depressed.  i think i might have had some sort of that at some point.  it controlled my life where i didnt want to socialize.  i like talking to people.  im very an extrovert.  it made me an introvert.  i did not want to speak to anybody.  yeah it just almost like brings you down as a person and theres really no way to get up; thatd be the best way to describe it.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time of crisis?
no *laughs* uh i had little to no control.  i think what really made it like hard to control was the confusion.  you just didnt know what was going on, at least i didnt.  at the time, i didnt know like why i was feeling this way.  i didnt know what was causing it.  i didnt know what i should do.  i didnt know really what to do with myself.  so i wasnt really able to control it.  really my friend, my girlfriend, really helped me through that time.  i think she was telling me that she had some past depression and i dont know if she saw it in me or what but she really helped me and like really helped push me through classes and just to get up out of bed sometimes so i really have to thank her for that.
they were probably affected negatively, especially because im not really in a positive environment.  i dont feel like im giving off any positivity so i think that probably turned them away.  they probably thought i was grouchy or trying to ignore them or something like that so i feel like they probably didnt gain much out of my feelings and stuff.
my girlfriend definitely.  i guess friends i would kind of look at them, especially my best friend i met down here this year, hes 4 years older than me so just with that i kind of take that into consideration like he has some time on me.  he might have been through more than i have so not only talking to him but kind of just like observing him and just learning from him.  i think definitely he was a part of that.
definitely i see positivity, especially like coming out of this or like starting to get my way out and dedicating my life to art.  i keep saying that but i feel like thats kind of like what pulls me through because before i just felt like i was just not really here like i didnt really have a purpose in life.  now that ive kind of dedicated myself to a purpose i have a reason to get out of bed.  i have a reason to do my work so definitely that was probably my life saver.  
i was born into a family where my mom was a beautician, my dad was an electrician, and both of them were always working.  my mom had adopted 3 of my cousins who are older than me and my dad had adopted one of his cousins from his sister so four siblings that arent kind of siblings.  when i was 2 or 3 years old, the three brothers ran away and we didnt see them for a couple months.  finally found out that they had ran off to their biological mom so and then eventually they ended dup leaving us and living with her.  shortly after that, maybe around that same year, my parents got a divorce so then growing up my mom was usually single but if she had a boyfriend he would come around and wouldnt really get to know most of them really well but the ones we did are still around even though my mom and them dont date anymore.
y dad was a bit of an alcoholic for several years until i got to about 7th or 8th grade then he quit alcohol and he quit smoking, him and his fourth wife i think it is.  the two of them now live maybe 10 minutes away from my mom.  funny story, my stepmom is actually my moms ex best friend; weird.  growing up everyone in my family was really big into sports, especially my brothers.  my brother xxx (first name) was phenomenal at baseball and wrestling and football like whew.  it was crazy.  actually he ended up quitting sports because a coach ticked him off and then he was 6 years older than me and that baseball coach was still sore about it because talking about my brother he came up behind me and told me that he was the biggest waste of time he has ever met in his life *laughs*.  
but then my older brother xxx (first name) washe was kind ofattention deficit, crazy dude that definitely is a frat boy now that hes in school and going through school i kind of wanted to be like him and my older brother xxx (first name) in doing sports.  so at a young age i was kind of the little bitty scrawny kid.  i was the misfit of the family and then as we got older i finally started getting good at sports so like, in middle school and high school especially, football and wrestling were like my life.  that was all i did.  i was also real good at school but because of the fact that i was so into sports and i didnt want everybody thinking that i was like a genius kid like they did in elementary school so like going into middle school i started slacking off in school.  i did well enough to keep as and bs so i ended up graduating with academic honors but not near as well as i should have done.
y freshman year of high school i lost my grandpa, which really sucked, and then not even a month later i found out that i had a broken back and that was the week of the conference for track so it went from me being the varsity long jumper, getting to go run at the state tournament and all this stuff to nope.  i had to sit at home and do absolutely nothing the entire summer in a big, bulky back brace that didnt allow me to move very much and kind of find out who your friends are when youre in a time where you cant do anything so that sucked.  then going from there i spent that summer just kind of dealing with my broken back, had a couple friends that were finally able to pull me out cause i was straight up depressed thinking all kinds of bad things that normally people dont think about and i havent thought about since so thats good.
but after that i finally got back into sports and ended up doing pretty well at wrestling but that was about it.  footballi didnt really grow any bit bigger at all so that was not very good for a linebacker but wrestling i ended up being a two time sectional champ, a conference champ, going to the semi-state for 3 years and my senior year losing by one point to the kid that placed 3rd at the state.  the kid that he beat in the 3rd, 4th place round is the kid that beat me at the sectionals and the regionals; kind of depressing.  i met my fianc when i was in 8th grade.  well technically i met her in 7th grade but i just knew her face in 7th grade.  so it took from 8th grade until the summer before junior year before i could get more than 3 words out of the girl cause she was completely antisocial and i was the opposite.
talked to everybody and i was friends with everyone at school but i actually senior year was the homecoming king and she 2 years prior was the fair queen, youngest fair queen in my countys history until now theyve changed it so you cant be that young anymore after she got done.  but it surprised the crap out of everybody that the two of us liked each other cause about the only thing that we had in common was art.  thats it.  we had art classes together but we ended up making best friends and i went from popular kid to like shoved out of the popular group and i was hanging out with her and her two extremely crazy friends.  hanging out in a group of estrogen is just not my style but its kind of how it went and then so my summers of my junior and senior year both i worked. 
junior year i worked doing lawn care, which was actually i absolutely loved because i love physical activity and id get up at 6 in the morning and id get home at 6, 7 oclock at night.  usually a little bit later because me and my buddy would go out and waste whatever money we earned that day going on trips to usually meet up with girls, didnt really accomplish much for me but for him he got plenty of girlfriends out of it.  senior year i did complete opposite side of the spectrum.  i worked at a daycare, which everybody says was like the best birth control possible.  apparently not very well for me because after senior year me and my fiancwed been dating for almost a yearand got her pregnant, just had a baby 5 weeks ago tomorrow and its probably the greatest thing.  im more happy now than i have been in a long time and it doesnt feel near like youd expect.  so now going into school because i was still halfway productive in high school.  i came into college with 24 credits already so mostly through my freshman year, getting done with freshman year and im going to hit the ground running next year to keep it going.  i think thats about it.
ection ii
not within the last 2 years.  well a little bit.  my sister, when i was a senior in high schoolactually the same time that i was being crowned as homecoming king i was finding out that everybody was calling my sister a whore and she was pregnant with a kid and it was just like the entire school exploded with talking ill of my family and it was more me wanting to beat the crud out of a bunch of people than anything else.
probably when i broke my back.  when i broke my back, i felt like my whole life was over cause my whole life was sports at that point.  i got to that point and it was hard cause i thought well ive worked for 14 years on all this and its all gone down the toilet.  theyre going to be wanting me to be walking around, saying that ill barely be able to do that.
i was flat out depressed.  id lay on the couch day in and day out and i wasnt talking to anybody.  i dont think i was really eating too much.  the most i got out was i had practice for football 3 days a week that id go and just because my brother was going anyways and the coach was really wanting me to or because my aunt would come and make me leave and go do something with her and make me watch my cousins play baseball or softball or whatever.  i was depressed.  i told the doctor and he just kind of brushed it off, thinking i was a stupid teenager.
no like nothing had really bothered me that bad ever before.
i dont think it was much the factor of my back being broke but like the doctor and my mom were both like it absolutely broke my moms heart.  she was bawling her eyes out over it because it had been an old injury.  id had the injury 2 years before wed actually found out that it was as bad as it was and they had me terrified that i was done with sports and i was not going to be able to do anything and since everyone at school knew me as this big athlete i just didnt think id be able to face everybody saying that im not going to be an athlete anymore; im going to be a mathlete.
i completelyi was driven to prove the doctors wrong cause the doctors said that i would never be able to like lift a certain amount of weight and i didnt just beat that; i smashed that by like 150 pounds or something stupid.  i just kept pushing myself in every physical way i could just made myself in great condition so my back would still hurt but it wasnt as bad as it was and i dont know.  i had a couple friends that helped me anytime i was feeling real down and out about it, started getting real into my church too towards the end of it.
yeah if something were to happen to my fianc or my baby that would definitely drive me to a point i dont know if id be able to come back from.
ection iii: change
i didnt do nearly as well like i just couldnti was always focused on how bad things were and i was never like seeing the light at the end of the tunnel or seeing how good things were for me cause i was still able to walk.  i was still able to talk, able to do everything else and at that point i had broken my back and my neck and i wasnt paralyzed yet so i should have been excited about that but i was so distracted by the fact of my back being broken and i was losing sports; that i was useless at everything else.  im glad i didnt have school at that time during all the summer time, end of the school year.  
well i still saw my mom every day and i still saw my friends but i didnt go out and make it a point to hang out with them like i dont know.  i just kind of stayed secluded on the couch for the most part, watching tv, didnt make a point to text anybody and ask them to come over or nothing else.  i figured if they werent wanting to come hang out with me then i wasnt going to bother with them.  that was probably kind of attributed to that kind of depressed feeling i was having.
my personality was like completely topsy-turvy, which was weird because im probably the most smiling person from my school.  my athletic director, that id not said like 3 words to, at the end of my senior year came up to me and was like what is up with you like what drugs are you on and where can i go  cause i was always happy through school but at that time like i still smiled and id still like fake every now and again but it wasnt the same like i wasnt truly happy at that point.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  whats stayed the same?  whats different?
yeah well i could tell that i was like not the same as i was and i couldnt like no matter how much i tried i couldnt force myself to be happy again.  i just couldnt.  that actually made me upset and angry with myself and i didnt know what was going on.  i was absolutely petrified of the weird thoughts that were popping in my head at random times when i was sitting in the house by myself.  it was driving me nuts.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?
it kept me from getting out and trying to get on top of things, at the beginning.  it definitely hindered some friendships that i had because people that were my best friends before that pointafter that point, to this day, we barely even talk.  its not like we had some sort of confrontation or anything else.  its just like we kind of dropped off the face of the planet for one another so it was weird.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time of crisis?
i was able to keep myself from going through with any of the stupid thoughts that came through my head cause i knew they were dumb like i was able to tell that they were not real and that i shouldnt be feeling that way and i knew it was dumb and i shouldnt be depressed and it was agitating to say the least.
i dont know if i can really tell like my brother thought i was just being stupid and acting like a dummy.  one of my friends, one of my buddys girlfriends cause we were friends at the time; she was like just thrown off by it and like fourth of july she made me go out and hang out with different people and made me start to get back to my happy level again.
well my brother and some of our buddys; theyd tell me to quit, just quit being a pussy and start manning up.  they were like rub some dirt on it, youre fine, youll be okay like quit being a little girl, man up; youve got this and then some of my other friends were like come on, go out and do this and just like theyd start cracking jokes with me to try and make me happy again.  one of my football coaches definitely did that.  he made so many jokes about being in a back brace.  hed drop the football and tell me to pick it up and all i could bend was my knees so that had to look really stupid but it worked.
i dont see too many more days thatll be like that at all.  it just seems like everything is getting better and better for me lately, especially getting a fianc and getting a baby and my fiancs family is amazing.  her mom and dad; theyre like godsends for me.  her mom especially has been insanely great like shes bought me food; shes done all this, let me move in cause my moms house was basically falling apart without any heat or water.  i had a really bad time senior year.  it was freezing cold and that winter was stupid and god was being mean at that point but things are going great now, cant see things getting a whole lot better and i cant see them getting worse on me either.  
o i was born in croatia in1995 and it was the eve of the yugoslavian war.  my dad just got out of the military during that time and i remember him saying that all the hospitals were broken down and so i was born in the school.  so during that time around 1997 we left croatia and we went to germany to get a residency but we werent able to so we stayed there for 6 months and my parents went through a lot of struggle, moving place to place.  i remember them telling me that they had to get on a cargo train at one point because they didnt have any money or a car or anything else.  then we moved to holland and we stayed there for a year.  we couldnt get a citizenship there so the united states called up and we were able to move to the u.s., move to vermont, and then stayed there for 12 years.  i went to elementary school, middle school, and high school all the way up to 11th grade in vermont and i moved to indiana about 3 years ago to finish my senior year and then to come here to xxx (college name).  
im trying to think of some other major changes that happened in my life.  uh i do lots of activitiesi dont know if that counts.  i played soccer, played basketball.  right now ive been playing the bass guitar for 5 years.  people, when they look at me, they see this kid with glasses and this kid cant do stuff but i break danced from middle school until half of my high school.  i went to americas got talent for beatboxing so when i say these things a lot of people get surprised.  theyre like oh how can you do this? and im like well its just practice.  i got interested in physics in 7th grade.  my dad bought me an idiots guide to string theory.  i didnt understand anything but ever since then ive been interested in physics and want to become an astrophysicist.  i think thats it so far.  
ection ii
there was a death in the family i want to say a little less than a year ago, but it didnt affect me as much because i dont know my cousins or my grandparents or any of my relatives cause were the only family that lives here in the united states so it didnt affect me as much as it did my parents so that took a big toll on the family.  another could be of psychological distress when i moved from vermont to indiana.  i had to leave all my friends behind so i was kind of depressed for a few months but i tried other things to do such as read books, get involved in school activities just to get my mind off things.  i think that was it. 
the most distressing was definitely leaving my friends behind.
i was extremely sad because these guys were like my brothers.  id been friends with them since elementary school.  everything we did; we did together.  we were always outside, always doing something, and so when leaving my neighborhood and seeing all of them together one last time was very emotional and i was like if im ever going to come back and see them i dont know if things would be different, things would be the same, but luckily after the years had gone by i was able to get some money and go back and see my friends so that was definitely a good thing.  the last time i visited them was in december for new years so it hasnt been as bad as it was when i moved.  things are definitely transitioning to a better life here in indiana.
i had no idea what to do.  i felt like it was definitely like starting a new life again.  i had no friends and its getting used to a new environment.  i dont know any other words beside sad, emotional.  it was definitely very difficult on a mental state but with going to a new school; it gave me the opportunity to make new friends.
no.
can you explain that?
i feel like its repetition again but its like friends.  yeah just not being able to see my friends again.
i just tried to find something else to do, just something to keep my mind off things.  i read a lot of books and i know it was my senior year so i had to start studying for the sat, act and pick a college i wanted to go to and pick a major that i wanted.  i just started thinking forward, eyes ahead, never looking behind; that was kind of how i looked at things.  i think that was it.
maybe not gettingi mean ill be happy if i move out of indiana but i guess something that would bring me back to a similar state is if i dont get the job that i like or if i dont get into a graduate school that i wanted.  i think thatd probably send me to a similar mental state as before.
ection iii: change
well i didnt have a job so are you asking the difference between the schools here or there?
i know that it was very minute things like the sour cream here.  we had a sour cream there that was labeled like cabot and the one labeled here is daisy like seeing the differences there its like wow im actually living in indiana like the sour cream compared to the sour cream or there are no mountains.  we lived on mountainsi lived in an area where there was a beach, it was like a 5 minute walk, and you could see new york on the other side so i felt like here it wasnt as open.  i thought there were less things to do, less adventures.  the schoolingthe thing that really bummed me out was the fact that my school in vermont was named bhs (high school name) and the school that i went to here was called xxx (high school name) so it was bhs again so its like when people say i go to bhs i have to structure my mind to thinking okay its not xxx (high school name); its xxx (high school name).  im trying to remember some things so its like a difference in how the schooling was?
my performancei feel like once i came to xxx (high school name) i wanted to show my friends or my parents that movings not going to destroy like how i perform academically so i wanted to get into an ap course, ap physics, but that required ap calc but i was in precalc so that part kind of bummed me out but all in all i stayed in honors.  it would have been great if we moved earlier, say when i was in middle school, because in middle school you sign that form that says 21st century scholarship and whatnot so if you get into a certain gpa level and graduate with a certain diploma then you can get the scholarship.  i graduated with a 3.7 and i could have gotten the scholarship but because i didnt come here in middle school and sign the form the scholarships out the window.  so academically i still stayed on top, nothing else really changed other than the emotional distress.
the only difference is the performance stayed the same but i was involved in activities in xxx (vermont high school name) that i wasnt involved in xxx (indiana high school name) cause i just didnt feel the need to.  
i mean theyre still the same old friends since i had when we were little kids.  some of them have changed physically but i dont think mentally.  theyre still the kids that i grew up with.
it was definitely a struggle with my parents.  since moving here, you kind of get to tell if your friends are actually your friends or if theyre two-faced and so with my parents many of them who they thought that they were friends with are actually two-faced and started talking behind their back so it kind of affected my parents a lot.  
ince moving, we kind of had this little kid mentality where we were always going outside, always doing everything and thats the thing thats changed is when i came back i still wanted that to be within us but we had just grown up and in the neighborhood where we lived; we always stayed in that neighborhood, never went out.  so when i went there and visited thats the place i wanted to be in but they wanted to go out and do this and go out and do that so i guess thats the thing thats changed.  some of the friends who were friends with each other are not friends anymore because of some relationship that occurred so its kind of sucks seeing that the friends that i grew up with and thinking that  the friends are with each other are no longer friends anymore because of some relationship thing that occurred between them.
i felti think theres a difference in my personality in between living in indiana and living in vermont.  in indiana, i like to keep things to myself cause educations very important to me so i prefer studying alone.  i preferi mean i like to be out in public too with a bunch of my friends but at the end of the day i just like to go back home, read a book, lie down and watch some movies.  in vermont, when i visited i felt like i was a little kid again so theres like a different side of me that came out when i went back and visited vermont.  i wanted to be outside.  i wanted to be with my friends, wanted to do this, wanted to do that.  its like i dont think there was a single point in time in vermont when i didnt do anything so i think those are kind of the two different sides of me.
probably, but i cant think of one.  i dont know.  id have to think about that one for a little bit.
what was different about your cognition or your emotions, so your thinking, whenever you first moved here?
i mean cognition was still the same.  i guess i had to adapt differently cause the environment was different.  as soon as i moved here, its like i hated staying inside cause i was used to going outside so i guess i just wanted to make friends as quickly as possible and be able to do something.  i dont know im just trying to think how i felt.  definitely it was very like unbelievable.  there were moments were i feltit was more like a rollercoaster so there were points where id be really happy and im starting a new life, going to college, and there were  points where id miss what i had back in vermont and happy, sad, happy, sad.
was there anything that stayed the same about your cognition or your emotions?  
i dont know.  probably.  i just cant think of any.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did the move here control your life?
can you explain that a little bit more?
i tried not to think of it from when i moved.  i just kind of wanted to look forward.  it didnt affect me as much as my parents, especially my mom, cause she wanted what was the best for us.  we were always outside in vermont so the fact that she saw us inside constantly.  there were points in the next year where she kind of broke down and was like why did we move here? and i told her thati tried to say the right thing.  i never read as much in life as i did when we moved here so i read like 7 books just in a year.  i was finding different things to do but i dont think it affected my daily routine.  at least i tried not to think about it often, tried not to let it affect me.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during the initial move here?
i think i was able to control it pretty well.  my mom says im a lot like my dad where i dont show much emotion sometimes so i kept it inside throughout the whole time but sometimes youve got to cry in the end.  
o my dadhes a military manbut i guarantee you he had some mental distress, probably why he didnt show it.  my mom; she just wanted to see us happy and the fact that she wasnt used to things we were doing had everybody down a little bit.  my sister; she was young.  i think we moved when she was in 4th or 5th grade so shes gotten used to it really quick.  my brother; hes like me.  the thing that really hit me hard was when my friends told me that after a year of living in indiana none of them talked to each other whatsoever.  theyre always like youre the person who brought us together but like cause ill be the first one outside all the time and then i would go to each one of their houses and knock and be like hey lets go but now that that doesnt happen; some of them didnt see each other for a whole year even though they all live in the same neighborhood.  its like 2 minutes away from each other.  they never even saw each other.  
two of my friends only hang out with each other and like no one else.  one of my other friends developed a friendship with a kid at school and those who only hung out with each othertwo of my friends only hung out with each other.  one of my friends got a girlfriend and not seeing the other friends at all so the fact thatand two of my friends that would hang out with each other all the time are not friends anymore.  so it did kind of hurt me the fact that my friends were separating cause it seems like they were saying in the end its like oh you brought us here, brought us all together, but now you left so its kind of like oh its your fault that this is happening.  i try not to think of it like that but i was happy then the fact that they said oh you brought us together so i was like oh okay so i was important and so when i came back and visited it was like i brought them all back together again but i dont know if they stayed together when i left.
i dont think so no.  i kept everything to myself.
in xxx (indiana high school name), theres this place called senior academy so its only seniors.  its sometimes juniors but its a part of the high school where its just the people apart of your grade so when i went there and i only saw people in my grade and you had a lunchroom in the same area so it was like coming together with people of the same age group, sitting at the same lunch table, then suddenly becoming friends with them i kind of really benefitted from that because its like no im wanted somewhere else.  i started going over to friends houses and just doing stuff so i think if it wasnt for the people that were in xxx (indiana high school) and the senior academy with the friends that i made; i think i would probably be in a different spot for life than i am right now.
well i mean its been 3 years since i moved so im definitely long past all the mental distress and whatnot.  i made new friends here.  i keep in touch with my old friends.  everythings going well so in the future i just, with the struggle that my parents have been through in their lives to bring us here, i just want to prove to my parents that i can follow my dream and become who i want to be and when theyre old enough, help them with money and anything else that they need.
my names xxx (his first and last name).  i was born in xxx (city name), florida.  the story of my lifeuh do i go back to parents.  is that cool?  yes.  okay uh my mom was a first generation american from haiti, catholic.  my fatheri think hes a third generation american.  uh hes a blend of things; native american, french, african american, hebrew.  my grandfather was a preacher and he traveled the country a lot, ended up meeting each other at toys r us; fell in love.  long story short, my parents had a forbidden love like romeo and juliet because of their religions but eventually they did find somebody to marry them.  it wasnt a preacher.  it wasnt a priest.  it was just some guy on the side.  my mom converted to christianity when i was 4 or 5; thats when my life became christian.
before that, i was catholic raised; catholic priests and preschools and catholic everything.  i hated it so much.  the story of my life, moving on, uh im christian.  im happily a christian.  im 18.  im in high school.  im a senior.  im also taking classes here at xxx (college name).  i hope to study neuroscience at xxx (college name); full tuition, room and board paid for this fall and thats the story of my life so far.
ection ii
what about the last 3 years?
three years ago my uncle died.  thats a major life event.  conflict uh puberty and parents, the whole parenting thing.  i think thats about it.
i think it was the conflict.
i dont think i was unstable but i was rude, very angry person.  thats about it.
i think that was the greatest distress or stressful time that ive had in my life.
previously, i thought it was my parents and some previous experiences with abuse i guess that i never let go but then thats what caused most of the arguments.
it took prayer.  it took counseling with our pastor and family and friends just pulling in and also it just really helped that my parent, well the one who did it, has moved on from that and is showing improvement.
not really.  
ection iii: change
my grades dropped, a+ student to cs and oh my gosh i got a d.  i stopped caring; there you go.  it has to deal with that period of needs or whatever where the parents and all that stuff at home wasnt right so the rest of that stuff just dropped.  since then, my grades have improved.  i did get kicked out of the early college program because of a d+.  whatever.  youre not supposed to get back in but i did so some good things have happened since. 
actually, at the time it started was just after me and my best friend had moved apart so i dont know.  it wasnt a release mechanism yet and i think thats what caused most of the volatile actions instead of dealing with it correctly like common adults we screamed and yelled and junk.  since then, theres been communication.  theres been a stress reliever, which is prayer for me, and thats about it.
*laughs* im a lot more relaxed.  i guess im so relaxed people think im shy or something like that but back then i was kind of a jerk.  a really, really bad tempered jerk so then its the biggest change.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  whats stayed the same?  whats different?
back then, my thinking was all emotionally driven because of all that junk.  its probably something with teenagers too but i think now im more concrete thinking and then emotions can be evaluated later.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?
it controlled my life in that nobody wanted to be around me *laughs* because i was a bitter jerk.  i could never move on until i dealt with the issue.  i think that was the biggest thing.  i just relapsed and relapsed and relapsed.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time of crisis?
*laughs* uh i think i was 14 or 15 at the time so not well.  i was very emotionally driven like i said.  mental wasnt concrete thinking anymore.  it was all assumptions that you would do this to me, mistrust, and then even if you didnt do it to me well you could have so mistrust.
i think they became scared of me, my siblings; younger brother and older sister.  there was never peace in the house so they probably had troubles with sleeping and doing homework and other things that you should be able to do in the house when its peaceful.
the main aggressor was me and the other parents.  ill just say it.  it was my mother or whatever and my father, he worked night shift so he was never home.  whatever.  he was there but he was never home.  there was no mediator.
i see good things, great things.  any time you deal with personal things and get that out of the way, theres open room for anything so whatever happens next im ready for it i guess.
ok so lets see so the earliest i can remember i think was like first grade in xxx (city name), georgia where i first started.  thats as much as i can remember from like the earliest time then i just remember after that there was a quick move cause i only stayed there for like 2 years.  i think my sister was born there so she was 2 when we left then it was north carolinathats where i think i startedthats where i finished 2nd grade, stayed there.  that was the longest ive stayed in any state ever, if thats possible.  i would say 8 years of my life i stayed there.  8 years i went thereno not eight, wrong time *laughs*.  yeah probably shorter but i was there for quite a while, longest time ever, went there for elementary, middle school, and there were just good experiences there.  i liked that place a lot.
then after that, i had went around visiting other states around my soon-to-be home indiana.  after that so once i reached 8th grade, finished 8th grade, i was going to think that i was going to high school there but then moved to indiana over the summer, came to high school here then after that i made a lot more friends here, better environment, colder.  i had a lot more excitement here than i did in north carolina to be honest.  then thats where i actually pursed more of my athletic goals cause i used to work out and i used to want to wrestle but i couldnt over there because of distance and financial issues so then i could actually wrestle here and stuff so i wrestled and actually started getting back into weightlifting.  those were highlights, and then i made more friends and senior year graduation.  great summer with some experiences, and then college commenced and now im pretty much atlets seefirst year of college and only 3 more to go, with a lot more to come.
t has been so farthats been the majority of it besides having two other sisters born, which i forgot to mention, but im terrible at chronological ordering so two sisters born, meeting new people, coming here, a lot of moving and a lot of visiting different states so ive just been moving around and everything and thats about it.  thats so far i can remember in detail. 
ection ii
the past two yearslets seeuh not anything in the past two years.  id say its been mainly calm, nothing stressful.  i mean first starting college i was a little bit worried but i managed to make it actually work.  its just a little bit stressful but not anything significant that would make me pull my hair out or anything.  yeah thats about it.
i was worried, a little bit timid because i didnt know what to expect or how itd be but ive adapted to it a lot better than i thought.  i like it better in high school.  i can say that, not so much in terms of how the work is and all that but in terms of i actually have more freedom than i did over there for sure, less uh less constraint on me.  its more like i do what i want then i know i have to get it done or else im just going to fall downhill from there.
yeah but if i dont put myself in the right position then im just going to be here wasting my money for nothing.
*laughs* yeah but i like it a lot better so its not been too stressful.
moving to indiana because i spent most of my time in north carolina so moving here i was like oh who am i going to meet and where am i going to be, will i fit in nicely?  is this all going to be relatively easy?  then once i got there it all became a lot easier, made a lot more friends than what i thought but at first i was just freaking out over the summer because i knew no one, didnt know where i was going to go for high school but then later on i started realizing i have a house cause back then i lived in an apartment so everything just started becoming better from there on.
i guess relatively what most people would say is that yeah you cant fool around, mess around because in high school you could mostly goof around and pass nicely.  i took it seriously and did well but i just did have my times where i would goof off and not want to do anything or do things last minute and then i realized i cant really do that here because i might fail but then that kind of startedthen that kind of calmed me down once i got here and i was like okay i can get the hang of this i just wont goof around when i cant and when i can i will.
besides spending time here and realizing what i had to do on a daily basis, organizing my stuff, realizing this is when i can have my free time and this is when i actually have to do this or get it done so it all just started with me organizing, finishing things on time and relatively just uh not letting myself get distracted by anything until i was completely done with finishing said schoolwork or material that needed to be done before i could do anything fun.
i could not.  i honestly could not.
ection iii: change
whats changed is nothing besides the actual environment because i went from one job to another so i quit one job and joined a new one.  its just been that at times i know i need to manage my time better because i cant goof around as much or i cant really procrastinate as much because if i do i wind up doing terrible so its kind of a time management thing thats changed.  i cant be as free as i was before and here and there ive had to call for exams that are placed on so and so date that i was scheduled to work and i know i have to work less so i usually dont try to overwork and thats about it.  the only times that i get overworked is when i dont have school and thats maybe summer or during vacation time.  thats about it.  thats all thats changed.
itsi am still doing well but just not as well as i did in high school because for the most part i find it a bit more challenging to get those as that i got in high school so relatively its stayed the same.  im still at the as and bs level but just not as many as as i have gotten before where its maybe like one a or two popping up or three at the most so its changed a little but i dont stress over it because i knew this was going to be a bit more challenging.
its all stayed the same to be honest with you.  nothings really changed.  just here im less at the house than i used to be because i commute so if im going someplace then im not home that often or not with friends that often but i still find time here and there to actually be with them.
relatively what ive seen ever since my freshman year to my freshman year in college, its stayed the same apparently and from other people i get the same perspective too that yeah i havent changed in the past four years at all and im still relatively the same guy that they remember back then.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  whats stayed the same?  whats different?
i guess that changed.  relatively now with like putting things into perspective i dont care as much, not as like i wouldnt care about my grades or that i wouldnt freak out or try to say that this was the end because i got one bad exam grade or i didnt score as well.  id just say oh ive got to try again and in terms of how people view meback then i had more of a conscious kind of way of oh i should act this way and now im just like eh.  i more like to do what i like to do and not care about much else.  back then, with my friends, id always want to know stuff but now i just focus on what i need to do to get my issues set and if anyone needs something then i really dont care.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that adjustment to starting school control your life?
for like the first month of school, it was kind of like i gave myself time off from doing the usual things because id always give myself time off to go to the gym so id stop that for a while.  i was more focused on getting things organized but then i started telling myself i need to manage things better so then it doesnt consume my life cause i mean i know education is important but ive got to have my own free time or else im just going to lose it not doing what i want to do.  it didnt really control me for too long, just a bit.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time transitioning to school?
pretty well.  nothing reallyi never let it get to me too bad.  i mean sometimes i was freaking out but then i realized no dont freak out, this isnt the only world for you, so really after a couple of experiences and a bit more time then i just started realizing that i need to manage my time wisely and do what i need to and i wouldnt freak out about it.  my mental state would just stay consistently great so nothing really started bringing my mental state down or deteriorating at any point.
probably not in any shape or way because most of the time if i was dealing with this i just mentally kept it to myself and i wouldnt let my mental buildup of stress to affect them so if i was dealing with anything i would just keep it to myself and still just act the same way that i would normally to them so just deal with it on my own and not let them feel any negative stress that i was feeling towards them.  they would just be fine and not be affected from it.
i think my parents just told me to keep doing well and everything and that helped a lot to kind of boost my confidence and not get overwhelmed at times when it seemed so stressful so really it was my parents that helped me and friends helping me as well because i have some friends taking the same courses so its like oh they helped me out at times when i needed it.  they helped me out with my time and my stress level.  that was pretty helpful right there to influence a better situation than all the negative stress.
just keep doing as well as i do now and eventually just work towards grad school and thats about as much as i expect out of myself to just keep doing well and not letting any of this, not even a bad exam or anything, get me down and still keep trying to finish the road i have paved for me.
okay, i was born in indianapolis, november 22, 1991. um, i was not planned by my parents. um, so because of me they got married and theyre still together, so thats cool. i have one older brother; hes eight years older than me. so anyways, so i grew up in indianapolis. ive been in the same house since i can remember; i wasnt born there, but i moved there when i was about three so its the only house i remember and i still live there to this day. um, i grew up catholic, so i went to catholic church every sunday, did sunday school. um, i went to kindergarten at a different school, but then i went to my main school, that i stayed at all throughout my school career, until high school; i stayed in that district from first grade on. um, i was a good kid. i actually got an award in kindergarten for being the best behaved. i remember, i got a chocolate bar at the end of every week that you didnt have any marks for misbehaviors, and i always got a chocolate bar; it was a milky way. um, i had to switch elementary schools in, after second grade, and i was devastated because i would have to leave all my friends, but i ended up liking the elementary school, that i went to for third and fourth grade, a lot more. um, one of my friends that i met in third grade, im still friends with today; were not super close, but shes definitely, um, the longest friend that ive ever had. um, middle school was hard. i was super awkward and didnt have a lot of friends, but in high school that changed. um, i got my first boyfriend in sophomore year of high school and we stayed together until freshman year of college. um, after college is when i started hanging out with, er, not after college, after high school is when i mean, is when i started hanging out with a bunch of people that went to different high schools and theyre all my really good friends now. i still have a few friends that i went to high school with, but i dont really hang out with them as much anymore. um, college has been a good time; i like it a lot more than high school, although i do miss how easy high school was and how i didnt have to work as much as i do now. um, i miss football games and dances at high school, but i have a lot more fun now that im over 21 and can go out with my friends and stuff. last year i went to my first music festival, that was bonnaroo, that was a life changing experience, i plan on going again this year. and i went to new orleans, this past spring break, to another music festival and that was a lot of fun. um, up until now ive been working on my bachelors in psychology and i plan on applying to grad school for occupational therapy, here at iupui. 
that about it?
yeah.
kay, well move onto the next section.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ection ii: illness narrative
have you, within the last two years, experienced a time of crisis or hardship that caused psychological or emotional distress? it could be in relation to a difficult breakup, death within the family, peer conflicts, difficulties in school, really stressful exams, etcetera; something that was a real hard time for you.( do you think you have a mental illness? and if so, what do you think it is?)
i dont, i wouldnt say this was a really hard time, but this past semester has been rough for me because im taking six classes and um, my work is really demanding; they dont have another person that does what i do there. so, i was working like 25 hours a week and i kept telling them that i needed like two of my shifts off and they just couldnt make that happen for me so i was really stressed out for a long period of time and i couldnt, um, i couldnt hang out with any of my friends because i was just so busy trying to get all of my school stuff done, while still working, while still trying to um, remain sane. so that was hard, but i havent had any deaths or anything in my family, or anything too traumatizing. 
o, this period that youre talking about, with the six classes and the 25 hour work week, i mean, thats quite a bit of stress i would imagine. i have a few follow up questions about that, thats a really busy schedule. uh, how would you describe your mental state during this time?
um, i did pretty good about it for a while, but there was this one shift, it was a saturday night, and it was really busy at work, i work at a restaurant, um, and it was uh, really busy and just at the end of my shift i just uh, started crying because like, the next day i had to be in there for a double and like, i had so much homework to do and i was so stressed out. i didnt want to go home and do it. um, so i started crying and i told my manager that like, i, i couldnt do it anymore, and that they needed to hire somebody soon so that they could train them and i could get some shifts off. so, this is actually the first weekend where i do have a shift off. so, im excited.
n the past, have you felt an equal or greater level of distress over an event, or has this been kind of the most that you can remember?( what experiences of mental illness have you had in the past?)
this is the most that i can remember just because um, my previous semesters i havent taken on quite as much work. also, this semester im volunteering at tech high school on mondays, so its kind of like, i feel like its kind of like a second job almost. 
n your mind, what caused the difficulties that youve experienced?( what do you think caused these problems?)
well, its everything happened at the worst time possible. like, it was a really busy season for the restaurant, and i was making a lot of money, so that was good, um, that was good, but i was always there for 7 hours every time i worked, and uh, it was always really stressful, very fast paced, um, you stay on your feet so youre exhausted by the end, so the last thing you want to do is go home and do more homework. 
how did you recuperate?
well, i kept telling them that i needed shifts off or whatever and then i went on spring break, which was awesome, because i really needed a vacation, so that was five days of not having any responsibilities and just having fun. so that helped me a lot. because then i came back and i had one of my shifts off and i felt um, rejuvenated and like ready to uh, go at it again.
ure. can you imagine experiencing a situation, resulting in a similar state of mind that you described or even worse?
omething unrelated to that?
ther or, really.
um, i mean the only way it could get worse is if they started scheduling as much as they did, again. and, and or, my schoolwork increased. but, i dont think its going to do that.



------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ection iii: whats wrong vs. whats not wrong
um, well i was really stressed out for a while just because it got so busy and i wasnt used to it. but then i started getting prepared in my mind, once i started going in there. like get everything prepared and be ready for a busy night. and then, its starting to slow down now so, its like im almost bored now.
n terms of your social functioning, uh with family, uh romantic relationships, friends, and even acquaintances, what do you feel changed and what do you feel stayed the same during this time?  (what about relationships with family, friends, and romantic relationships? how have those changed?)
well, i definitely, um, i definitely didnt get to see my friends for a while because i had to work every weekend and i couldnt see them during the week because of school. its not like we stopped being friends or anything. um, theyre busy too but, i didnt get to see them and that, that was hard because i like hanging out with them. my family, i live with my parents, so i see them every day no matter what; so that didnt change.
how about your personality; in a sense, who you are. do you feel like there was anything that was different um, about that or, or the same about your personality during this time? (how about your personality  who you are?)
i think when im really stressed out, i can be more harsh than i mean to be with people, because im kind of high strung, in those situations. but when i am at ease, like on spring break and stuff, then i think im back to my normal self.
with regard to cognition, you r thoughts, even the emotions that you were feeling at this time, do you recall things that may have stayed the same about those things? or things that were different, again with your thoughts and emotions?(what about how you think and feel? (ability to concentrate, remember things?))
um, i think when i was going through that, my mind raced a lot more with all of the things i needed to get done; worries. yeah, i wasnt, i dont really know how to say my thoughts changed, i guess my thoughts were just more reoccurring and um, distracting.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ection iv: degree of influence of illness construct
kay, i recognize some of these questions are a little different so, im going to shoot right through. um, to what extent and in what ways did this time of hardship control your life? (to what extent and in what ways does your mi control your life?)
i mean , it, that was my life. is my life. um, yeah, um, i mean its what i had to do every day so.
to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during this time? ( to what extent and how well are you able to control your mi?)
i did pretty well, even though i was stressed out, i knew, i know im capable, so i knew i could handle it. its just the point of, them working with me at some point, like seeing a light at the end of a tunnel.
how were others, er, how were others affected by your mental state? (how have others been affected by your medical illness?)
um, i know my friends got it sometimes, they were understanding. its not like they were like, come out with us, because they knew that i was busy. um it stressed, when im stressed out, my mom stresses out. she just wants everything to go okay for me, so um, i think it stressed her out a little bit to see me struggling. other than that though, i dont think anyone was really affected.
kay, and how did others influence your mental state during this time; what are the effects they had on you? (how have others affected your medical illness?)
i wouldnt say anyone really affected me, other than like people at the restaurant. my mom tried to make me feel better and stuff so, i guess she affected me; in a good way. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ection v: the future, hopefulness and satisfaction?
nd, what do you see ahead of yourself in the future? (what do you see ahead of yourself in the future?)
um, well, im hoping that i get accepted into grad school and then i would not work during that time, i would take out loans to help pay for that. and, hopefully find myself on the right career path. then move on.
there anything that youd like to add that you didnt talk about?

no.
um, i was born at [hospital] um, on the north side. my cousins were born the exact same day as me, on the south side. we were exactly four hours apart. i was born at [time] and she was born at [time], so shes technically four hours older than me. um, my aunt has babysat me from the time i was six months old until i went to high school. um she took, she babysat other kids, so i went to [preschool] which was by her house. and, um, there, i met two of my really good friends who i was friends with all the way through high school. i went to [elementary school] because her children still went there, and so it was easier for her to just take me to school in the morning with them than my mom to take me somewhere different. um, after grade school i went to [high school] which is on the south side of [city]. um, there i was involved in softball and spanish club and a bunch of other things. um, i went to [university] for a semester, and then i ended up moving back home after my grandma got sick and was getting put in a nursing home. so i transferred here to [university], and right now i am a health sciences major who just pushed back graduation until next may, so i will be a fifth year senior next year.
um, last semester was pretty much um, a really difficult time for me. my grandma died five days before the semester started, and she was my last living grandparent, so that was really hard even though we all knew it was coming, and then the semester just kind of spiraled out of control from there, and i ended up getting a c- in the statistics class that i needed to graduate, which um, is going to keep me back from graduating until next year, so that was really hard for me because i had worked so hard with transferring and taking summer classes to graduate in four years and to be two percentage points away from it, from taking that one class, it, um, it was hard and i had a lot of issues with it, and it took a while, but i finally came to terms with it, and im all right with it now. 
was really confused. i was angry. i was sad. um i was mad at myself for not putting in the effort to get those two more percentage points that kept me back, but at some point you just have to get over it and move on with life, i guess.
probably not.
that was one of the low points.
didnt put in the effort. i started out the semester on a bad note, and i just kept it going, and i didnt put in the effort like i should have to get the grade that i should have in that class, and thats why that happened. 
um, i talked to a lot of my friends, my family. and they were all like, whats the big deal? no one seemed to really care, and it kind of made me realize that, ok, if no one else is going to care, i probably shouldnt freak out about this. its not going to be the end of the world, and im still going to graduate, and life is going to go on.
yeah. (laughs.) um i guess a lot of, ive seen a lot of, like, death and loss. and i can see how hard it was, it is on me, and what it caused for me, and i can only imagine if it was my grandparent, which, i mean, i was really close to her, but if you had a child that was lost, or, i mean xxxx some people in high school that had cancer that died, and i cant imagine being their family members and having to deal with your sixteen-year-old child dying, so i know that there are worse things in the world.
y concentration was gone. i didnt have the focus or the drive. i was just kind of moving through the motions without actually trying to put the effort in. so i dont know if anything stayed the same.
kind of shut people out, and i shut my boyfriend out, which wasnt the greatest idea, but i mean, i was trying to deal with the thoughts in my own head, and i pushed people away because of it, and luckily most of them are still here, and i didnt push them away for good and they understand, so 
was a lot i felt like i was sadder, like i just didnt want to i didnt want to go out and have fun, and i wasnt the outgoing person that i usually used to be, and i just became a different person, and i, looking back is when i saw. i didnt realize it was happening at the time, but i see that i was a different person, and it makes me sad that i missed out on the opportunities that i did, so
t controlled when i graduate. it controlled how i felt. it controlled who i was around and who i was friends with and how i acted toward them, so it controlled almost my whole life. 
t first it was hard, and i didnt control it well, and i would get angry and let it out, and that wasnt the best, but eventually i kind of realized that being mad about it wasnt going to change it, and i was the only person that was going to change it, and i had to look at it in a different light, or else i was going to be miserable for the next year and a half. 
think they got annoyed with me because i was not happy all the time and i wasnt, i was being mean when i shouldnt have, and i wasnt the best friend that i should have been in this time, so luckily theyre still here. 
um, they kind of helped me see that i was being a different person and that i wasnt being who i wanted to be or who my grandma would have wanted me to be or anything like that, so they kind of helped me to push past it and realize it wasnt the end of the world and i was going to survive one more year of college.
um, i graduate next year, so im really excited. i need to decide if im going to grad school or what im going to grad school for. i probably need to figure my life out. im [age], but im excited. i dont know.
nope. ok, um i was born in [location] to [names], um we, my first house was a duplex in [location]. um, my parents, my mom is a designer at [location], my dad um, worked at a funeral home. a few years later he bought the funeral home and then we moved actually into the funeral home which was an interesting experience. i was probably three or four. um, i loved living there because there was always people around. um, after my brother was born we built a house in [location]. and we lived there for ten years. um, i went to [location]. um, and [location] and i was involved in a lot of sports as well as my brother. and then, about two years ago we bought another house back in the woods. um, my senior year i did really well in track and field. um, my family has been a big part of my life and they are really supportive. and now i am here. is that good enough?
um, well right now my great grandma is battling cancer, she is dying but she is like eighty nine so i mean, you know she is going to die. with my dad owning a funeral home we know that life is short. so we just live it out while we can and we all know that we are going to end up in heaven together so make the most of it. but not really anything stressful thing in two years i guess. 
k. 
good, um, she, she knows that she has cancer but she is still fighting hard and she gives everything she has, and i go and see her. and all the family sees her and we always laugh and smile and think about things from the past and that is all we really can do. 
no, not really a stressed person.
um, maybe just like applying to college or getting into the nursing program is kind of stressful because it is so competitive. 
but, um, i have been working really hard and i think that i am going to get in fine, so.
wait what?
um, just like, thinking if i do not get in what am i going to do. should i reapply or switch to a different major? should i even just apply to a different school? yeah.
um, mostly just talking to my parents. they reassured me you know you are going to be fine you have good grades you are a smart kid. um, i talked to my teachers and anything if i need help and get assistance when i need it and i do not know. go to the gym if i am super stressed i guess. yeah that is it.
um, repeat the question.
um, not really. i mean whenever i am stressed about anything i always just do the same thing, i call my parents and see what they have to say about it, what they would do and then go from there. 
um.
um, no. i have not had a job. 
um, no. even when i was stressed about whatever, i mean school i need to focus on school. i mean that is my future, so. 
um, anytime i am stressed i would say the relationship with friends and family definitely gets better because you are leaning on each other for support. 
um, how has it changed? 
um, i would say a little bit more down but, um, your friends are always trying to pick you up and your parents are trying to pick you up, so. yeah i would say there are good days and bad but it gets better and back to normal. 
um, any time i am stressed i think you realize how important people are to you and how much you take for granted. um, you just learn that you have to like tell people you love that you really do love them and care about them. 
um, i honestly do not really think it did control my life. um, i think when it all starts to go wrong, you just have to or i just like pray for strength or whatever and you get through it and you are fine.
um, i was able to control myself good under the circumstances that it was. um, yeah.
um, i think that if you or one of your friends is down it kind of makes the whole group kind of seem down, but um, they try to pick you up and once again and it seems like everything is fine again and everyone is back to normal and happy and laughing. 
um, just by talking to me or calling me out of the blue. or, just texting and saying like, hey i have been thinking of your, or hey how have you been doing? um, just letting me know that they care and that they are there for me. 
far as like stress, or as far as whatever? 
um, get into nursing school, and start nursing school in the fall, and make it through nursing school. and, find my husband, somewhere, marry him, then um, go back and get my masters, and have some kids, and go on vacation, and live my life. 
no. 
o the earliest i can remember is when i was probably three years old, i just have little snippets of memory. um, i know that i liked playing in the playground in my neighborhood that was probably my favorite thing to do. and, um, oh i do know that i fought with my sister a lot, and her friends i did not like them, my older sister.
who i didnt like she was mean to me, but other than that it was good.  and then up to when i was five, um i went to kindergarten, and i really liked that. um, and uh, um, ok good. and um, went through elementary school, i was the type of kid who was really um, anal about doing my work and not getting in trouble. 
nd i was always really responsible with everything, organized, i had to get good grades. and um, so i went through elementary school um, up to middle school. um, and i got good grades in middle school. i always worked really hard, i really liked middle school. um, then i got to high school and um, oh, throughout my life one of my favorite things was going to england because my mom was from england. got to visit my grandparents and my aunt and uncle and my younger cousins and um, just experience there, so that is like a second home to me. and then when i got to high school i really liked it. i was involved, i played tennis, i did choir. um, i got up to like the top choir my junior year and then i quit my senior year.
nd then, um, and then um, really focused on school that was like my biggest thing so i was thinking about getting into college. um, i decided i wanted to be a nurse when i applied here um thats why i applied here because of the nursing school. um, throughout my life i always changed but in elementary when i decided to be a nurse, in the first time. 
ways had it in the back of my mind because i thought about being a writer and engineer. and i hate writing and i hate engineer stuff so, nursing is good for me. and i tried it out, went on job shadows and stuff. so yeah. so, i applied here and got in um and, oh i met my boyfriend when i was a sophomore who i am still with and he goes to school here too, so that is really nice. and um, and i came here and i really like it i didnt have to go through any huge changes because i still live at home for now. um, the biggest change was just um, you know college and different. school is different only coming to school like um, four days a week and like for different times. um, and still really focusing on grades and stuff to get into nursing school. and, that is basically where i am now.
k. so, the most stressful thing in the past few years has been trying to do the ts test and studying  for that. because it um will get, it is what, it is part of the entrance into the nursing school and i only get to take it twice in two years. and um, i only had, they only had one slot um, open before i had to apply so i could not take it again if i did bad before i applied, so i was really stressed out and focusing on that, and studying for that. and that was probably the most stressful time. 
um, really, um stressed uh and, overwhelmed, um not, you know, myself. but, thinking about studying all the time not thinking about other classes, not thinking about anything else just um, getting a good score on the test.
um, the only other time in the past that i have felt greater distress is when my grandmother in england passed away. i was a sophomore in high school, so i was fifteen. and um, it was really stressful for me and uh stressful and sad it was a really emotional time. it was before spring break, so during spring break i went to her funeral and everything so that was probably the most emotional time for me.
um, just, um losing my grandma before i got to see her one last time was the worst thing because she lived in a whole other country so i didnt always get to see her every time. just you know just in the summer for a few weeks at her house and stuff so that was probably the biggest thing that um upset me because um she was she had emphozima and copd because she was a smoker her whole life. so i knew it was coming, i just wish i could have seen her one more time. 
um, i really just, uh had to take, have time afterwards like the funeral was a great time for me to just morn and get it all out. and then from there i started to feel better. and, like, talking to my friends, and my boyfriend, and my parents really helped me to just feel better about the whole thing. 
um, probably just experiencing, um, a similar state of mind would be like if like my parents died or my boyfriend or any of my friends. um, so if someone close to me died, um, that would be really, um, emotional and sad for me. 
um, i was really, um, i would be really sad um, at school. i would be really, i would, uh, be fine and then someone would  talk to me about it and then i would just totally lose it. and 
i would be at school and i would be thinking about it. and like, oh, i am going to england soon, what do i need to do before i go? and like i am not going to see my friends, and like,  it is going to be spring break, i am going to be, you know, jet lagged when i get back and stuff. what do i, uh need to get done? what is it going to be like at the funeral because i had never been to one before. 
o that was really just, um, what was, you know, distracting me.  and then, it is just getting emotional on top of that about the whole situation really changed the way i did things in school and just life. 
um, i was, um, distracted in class, because i was thinking about, oh, i need this time to study this for the ts, and i need to study this more. and i was just um, you know really distracted, and i was stressed out, so i was, um, you know, i was eating more unhealthy foods, i guess.
nd, i was not doing as much exercise because i did not have time for that. and so, um, that changed. i was not studying as much for my other classes because i was just focused on the test. 
um, with my grandma, i was more closed off to people about all of my emotions.  i was still open with my parents and my boyfriend, just telling them how i was feeling and, like, all the sadness i was experiencing and stuff. but, everyone else, like, i did not really want to talk to them about it because i would get just more upset just thinking about it. um, but with the ts test i would just get um, really snappy at people, because i would be really stressed out and overwhelmed. so i would just be like no i cannot do this right now. no, like i cannot hangout right now, i cannot talk about this right now, like, uh, just let me focus, let me do this. so, i would be more on edge with people around me but, not, um, as emotional or anything
um, i was much more, upset, um, down, when my, um, grandmother passed away. i was not as happy and bubbly as usual with everyone. um, and i was really thinking about life in general and life and death. so, i was just like, more just you know, cut off from everyone. um, and then with the ts, i was um, i was, like i said, i was really like snappy and i, uh, was just really stressed out. so, i was not as happy either. i was not just like, oh lets go do this, like have fun. 
um, i was just more like, no i need to study right now, i need to you know think about this or do this, and do all this work so i was more just busy and focused on that, so that changed my personality.
um, well with my grandma my emotion was obviously totally up and down all the time. one minute i would be really sad and upset and then i would be fine because, or try and think about something else, and then someone bring it up, or something would remind me of it, and i would get really upset again.
um, being over in england, was that was how it was a lot too. because one minute i would be having, you know, a good time and you know try and go out and go shopping while i was there and try to do something fun.
but, then the next i would see something that would remind me of my grandma and i would get really upset.
then, with the ts test my um, cognition changed in just that i was really focused on the ts but not thinking about, um, other classes and other things. and i was just, uh, really focused on the ts test, so. 
um, i was really, um, just overwhelmed, i guess would be the best word.
um, i was really, i, uh, uh, would be like happy sometimes, like just thinking like when i was not thinking about it but then when i like had free time i would be like oh, i need to study, like. and, i would be more you know, just stressed out about it i guess. 
um, the ts test, um was just i was putting all my energy into that. so, i was not putting my energy into other things and i was not going out and doing fun things, and stuff like that. i was not allowed to go out on the weekends and stuff because i was thinking about it. 
um, so it was really just controlling, like, my social life and like my performance in other classes, my attention to other classes. um, and then my grandma. i, it was not, it was just, the only thing that controlled it was me having to go to england over spring break. i did not get to, you know, stay home and hangout with my friends and stuff, which of course i would not have wanted to, i would not have wanted to miss the funeral or anything. so, that was probably the only aspect that was controlling my life, about it. 
um, it was not too hard to control my mental state during the ts. um, studying, i was not, i would be, you know more snappy at people; i could not really control that. but, i was not like, um, i would try to calm myself down if i would start like stressing out, i would try to, you know, relax myself. whereas with when my grandma passed away my emotions were so up and down it was really hard to control like my sadness.
nd um, you know, stuff like that, so those were, those emotions were much harder to control, um just because i think sadness is harder for me to control than being stressed out and overwhelmed. 
um, well when my grandmother passed away, i did not talk to my friends as much, you know around that time. i did not want to talk to them at school or anything, because i did not want to like break down at school. 
um, but i was still close with my boyfriend and my parents. um, and then with the ts test, i was really just, um, did not like hangout with my friends as much or you know my boyfriend because i was studying more. and i did not want to get like distracted and stuff. um, so and i was like, uh, different when i was like stressed out, the way i acted around them. 
um, so, with, when my grandmother passed away others were just really supportive of me, um, you know, talked to me if i wanted to talk, um, i really, you know,  told my parents and my boyfriend all of like, my emotions and what was going on, what i was thinking and feeling and stuff. my friends would just, you know support me and try and my make me feel better, try and get my mind off of it.
um, with the ts since i have friends who are also going into nursing and taking the same test, um, they would tell me. you know, oh, i got this score, oh, you know, this part of the test is really hard. so that would influence the way i would study, like to study science because that is the hardest part they all said.
you know, i would compare, you know, everyones scores, and what i like needed to get. and like, if i needed to get better or worse than that, and stuff like that. so it was really influencing the way i studied. 
um, i hopefully will get into nursing school and become a nurse, my bsn. i really want work in more of an urban hospital in the er. so somewhere like methodist or something. um, and then if i really like nursing, hopefully i will be able to come back for graduate school and become a nurse practitioner.
um, and i would hopefully like to move out of indiana one day and go somewhere on the east coast, maybe like boston or something. um, somewhere with a bigger city and more, you know, diversity and stuff. and um, maybe get married and have some kids, if i want. and then, um just hopefully work as a nurse, because i really like that and you know, um impact peoples lives and help people the way i can. and then i am going to retire and just relax and live the retired life
no. i do not think so. 
um, i was born in [state]. i lived there for two years, and then we moved here because my moms family is here. my dads family was there. um, i have seven siblings. um, four of them are half-sisters, three are brothers. um in grade school i went to schools in [city, state], and i lived there with both of my parents, and then shortly after, in first grade, they got divorced.  and then i spent the week with my mom, the weekends with my dad. and then in fourth grade i moved to um, [city] area and went to [school]. and then i started going weekly to my dads and weekly to my moms. um then went to high school and didnt really like high school that much. i stayed for my freshman year. i was a really good student though. i had like a 3.9 gpa, but there was too much drama for me, and so i decided to do high school online, so i did the k-12 program for the remainder of high school and graduated from there and got accepted to [university]. i really didnt know what i was going to do, so i just came here. um lets see in my what year was that?... i guess my junior year i got pregnant and then i had my son [name]. he is now [age] months. and me and the father are still together, been together for five years, and so yeah, were just making it work. 
um, no.
h, yeah, school is always stressful because i take it very seriously, but its not like, it doesnt affect me in ways that i dont function normally or anything like that.
yeah.
um its kind of hard to be a full time student and a full time mom to a toddler. um, i do kind of feel stressed because i live with my parents right now, and i feel like theyre kind of watching me like, oh you have a four year degree so like, you must stay on track and get out, you know, within four years and everything like that. so, i feel like its hard, like i have to ace the classes, i have to get in on time, i um have to get a job kind of a thing because, i mean my boyfriend, he works right now but its not enough to be on our own right now, so i just kind of feel like that pressure.
um, um, average. fine.
dont think so. um lets see i mean, i dont really have any major deaths or any my grandpa died, but i was really too young to know what was going on. 
no.
ke things that could happen?
um, anything could happen, like car crash. i could lose someone. i could fail a class, kind of thing.
dont work right now. 
um, yeah, when im tense i feel like i take things out on people. its kind of like, um, whats the word? like, projection to others, kind of a thing. um, i think thats kind of normal though. like, you just feel like time is going by too fast. you dont have enough time to study, dont really have enough time to focus on the things you want to focus on, and kind of like, life is just passing as youre swamped.
um, no. 
um, i think you just kind of feel very overwhelmed when things like that are going on, and you kind of feel like, inadequate sometimes. like maybe if i dont study enough, or maybe i cant study, and maybe like its just not sticking kind of a thing.
um right before an exam, i would say its really stressful and thats all you really think about. its kind of your main focus, but then when its over, youre kind of, youre still kind of stressed about it because youre like, well, i dont know if i did very well. you kind of question yourself, but then its fine. it definitely  like, um, calms down after that.
ke stress kind of consumes when its very high. so i feel like thats kind of like, hard to do. 
um they probably feel like im just lashing out, um, dont want to be bothered, kind of a thing.
um, not that much.
no.
um, success. i feel like success is kind of like, um, subjective though. like, im not seeing a bunch of money and a huge house kind of a thing, just um, following my dreams and finding true happiness and like, loving relationship and that kind of thing. um, but i do want to get a degree, and i do want to eventually get a job and move out kind of a thing, so
no.
k. um, i was born on [date], um, in [city 1, state 1]. its up by [state 2]. um, and i grew up in basically we lived in one house until i was about ten, but we moved to [town] which is right next to [city 1]. and, um i mean, it was a small house, but um, when i was about three, my first sister was born, and her name is [name]. and then when i was about five my third sister was born. her name is [name]. um i mean, i dont really remember much in living in that house. um, i grew up and i played soccer. my sisters both played soccer, and we did gymnastics. um, my mom worked at the elementary school that we went to, and my dad worked, um, he was a engineering designer or something. im still not really sure what he does, but he worked downtown. and so, yeah. um, i spent a lot of time at the elementary school where my mom worked because we stayed there before school and then after school while she was working. um, we didnt really have any pets when i was growing up. we did have one dog, but we had to get rid of her because she bit my sister, so. (laughs.) grew up, i grew up.  i didnt have a lot of pets. um, um, lets see um really, i didnt really do any other sports beside soccer. um, i got very involved in soccer. i played, um, ever since i was in about first grade. i played on several different teams, and i ended up um, playing through high school, too. um lets see i grew up, um, all of my aunts and uncles lived around us, so i grew up with a lot of family. um like, my grandparents lived just down the road from us, so a lot of childhood was um, with them. a lot of my memories are from that. um lets see. i went to [name] middle school which is um. its actually right next door to the elementary school where i went and my mom worked. um i was pretty shy in middle school. i didnt talk a lot. um, i, um, had a very small group of friends. um i did play soccer, and i also um, joined the track team there. um i ran the hurdles and the 400. i loved it, and, um lets see, i mean i dont know. i didnt really like middle school, but (laughs.)um,  i mean, i um, always liked school, um but and then, um. actually, around eighth grade i met my two best friends, so um yeah, weve been best friends since eighth grade um and then, lets see high school, i went to [high school], and lets see. freshman year i played soccer, um, and i ran track. um i was um, i was still pretty shy my freshman year. i had pretty much the same friends that i had in middle school. um i still didnt like to talk very much. um and yeah. and then lets see, my sophomore year um lets see, i played soccer again. i ran again. um cant really remember much from that year. i dont know why. but, um my friends changed a lot that year. i was, um, i was still friends with um, the two girls i met in eighth grade, but i wasnt really friends with the other girls that i was in middle school. i met a lot of different people, especially through um, track and running. so i mean, i guess that changed a lot. um thats the year that um, um, we got a cat. (laughs.) and then um, lets see my junior year um that was an eventful year. um, lets see, i played soccer in the fall and then um, um that christmas my parents split up, so that um i mean, that was pretty it was pretty weird and pretty hard because my dad moved out. um so it was just my mom and my sisters. um i had also started dating this guy who um um, i think pretty much just dated, started dating him because of everything that was going on at home, but, i mean it was, um, not like a physically abusive relationship, but it was very emotionally abusive, and, um yeah, it was just bad, but we didnt end up breaking up until around april. but, so i started my track season that winter and um well, my parents like, they went, or, they were going to counseling for months and like, they finally like, figured that out and they got back together, so he moved back in around i think it was actually around april, so then things kind of went back to normal, kind of. and um and actually, um, then that may i made the big decision to um, actually quit soccer. i wasnt going to play my senior year, and i decided to start running cross country that fall instead. um the cross country coach had been trying to convince me for years to switch, and my best friends were on the team, so i figured, i didnt really like soccer anymore and um yeah, after everything with my parents i didnt really feel like playing again, so i joined the cross country team and, um, i loved it. um i mean, i met a ton of people, and actually, like, im still friends with a bunch of them. and... lets see i mean, i basically just spent the whole summer running. and then um fall of my senior year, i mean, it was a lot different because um, cross country was a lot different from um, the soccer team, but so, but i really enjoyed it. um and then i mean around december i decided that um, i wanted to run in college, and i originally, i had committed to [university 1], and i was pretty sure that i was going to go there, and then um that winter, um, the cross country coach here, he called me several times, so i came on a visit down here and um, i decided to decommit from [university 1] and commit here to run um, that was around january. um lets see um um, my best friend also, she decided to come down here for nursing around that time, too. um then lets see, track season was pretty normal. um, and then i found out in march that my other best friend, she was moving to detroit, so, which i mean, it wasnt like, that sad because i mean, were all going to college, so she was going to go to ball state anyway, so um but, i mean, that was a little difficult because she um, was going to have to leave before the end of the school year. um, and then um, well, we got a new track coach for outdoor season and, um that was a little rough but and then graduated in may and then um, this summer i really, i just worked and ran and trained. and then um yeah and then i started going here in the fall, and i lived, i live with two girls on the team and then an older girl. um lets see um i had a lot of problems being away from my sisters because were really close. um i mean, running went well. i met a lot of people. um, i liked it a lot more than i thought i would. so yeah, and then we had indoor track, and then were in outdoor track right now, so i mean yeah thats basically it, i guess. 
um, yeah, i would definitely say when my parents split up.
um, i mean, i wasnt, i wasnt depressed, but, i mean, i was probably definitely, like, really grouchy and um probably not as like um, like outgoing as i usually was.
um
no, would have been within the last two years.
yeah.
yeah.
um, no.
um i guess just like, everything being so different and home and like, not having both of my parents around, so 
um like, i had a lot of um, like support from like, my extended family since we live so close to like, my grandparents, my aunts and my uncles, and like... my sisters and i got really close over that time, so we kind of helped each other through.
um i mean, i guess, i mean, i hope i never have to, but i mean, i think that i would get through it, so
um, i mean that, like, school pretty much stayed the same because um, like i didnt really tell a lot of people, like only my close friends knew. so i mean, like, i still like, i still went to class and like, did all my homework and stuff. and um like running like, i tried not to let it affect it. if anything, it probably helped me because it kept me distracted, so i mean, everything like, that wasnt at home stayed pretty normal.  so
um i mean, well, obviously like, at home, like, at first i didnt spend a lot of time at home. i kind of just like, wanted to stay away, so like, i was with my friends and like, i was dating a guy at the time. um um, i mean like after a while, like, i realized that i couldnt just like, keep running away from it, so then like, um i tried to stay like, more open with people and not like, just like, shut my family out. but i mean, i tried to stay the same with like, my relationships. um i mean they were probably a little bit affected just because, like, i didnt like, want to talk about certain things, so i stayed kind of closed about it. 
um um i guess pretty much just like, i wasnt as open as i usually was. um and i tried to like, avoid talking about certain things i guess. so i wasnt like, as outgoing as i normally was, so 
um i mean, for a while like, i was really mad with my parents and like, um defensive of my sisters, and i mean i kind of thought that it was like us against them, but i mean um, after a while, i got over that kind of, so but, i guess thats really the only thing that i can think of that changed. 
um i mean, i feel it didnt really um, i mean because i tried to keep it so separate from like, um, the other parts of my life, but i mean um i guess it kept me like, more focused on like, running and school because like, i didnt want to like, think about that or like, go home, so i mean, i guess that, but
um... i think i was able to control it pretty well. i mean yeah. 
um, i mean, i dont really think that they were because i um since i didnt share a lot about it, so i dont i mean, they didnt know like, all the details, so i mean um. i mean, if anything like, sometimes i was just like, more quiet... um so, yeah. 
um i mean, i tried, like, to stay around people that like, um, understood me and like, werent like, um i dont know, like downers, i guess. they were like, um, i tried to stay around like, more positive people so yeah.
um like, what do you mean by that?
um, well, i want to be a physical therapist. um, i eventually want to have a family. um, im very close with my family now, so like, i want them to be part of it too, so
alright um i was born in indianapolis to my mother and father, theyre still married thankfully. then about a year after i was born they decided to move to noblesville for the school system and so thats where i currently still live. umm its a very good place and so i enjoyed growing up there. um its a very good environment. and i also grew up with a lot of contact with my parental grandparents. they are also a very good influence in my life. um and then when i was about 11 or 12 my brother was adopted from russia. um theres a big age gap and so its not quite uh siblings how theyre typically presented i suppose at least so how ive seen them, how i grew up seeing them um when i was growing up as an only child. but i still consider him fully my brother and i do love him. um then when i was 12 my paternal grandfather died and that was a hard hit and then 2 years later my paternal grandmother died and that was also very hard for me. um in my genetic past um depression and anxiety run in both sides of my family and i did grow up as a child with obsessive compulsive disorder which i do still have which is treated with medication um fairly well and when my grandparents both died that tended to bring about the depression and so i did have a hard time in high school uh just attending but i did still manage to do fairly well. um both my parents are very supportive and theyre also very smart too and so i did get to grow up in a very good environment intellectually and so i was able to develop in to, i hope to be a fairly smart, intellectual minded person. and after high school i did a semester here at iupui part time. i was still dealing with quite a bit of depression and then the next semester i went down to iu bloomington and that uh was not a good experience. being not around my family and that support system, i just stayed in my dorm room the whole time. and i ended up failing that semester. and so after that i took  a year off school and got a job and i got out of that depressive episode and then i came back to iupui and i still live with my parents but i do appreciate their support system and i do still work. so i do feel fulfilled in that aspect while im still getting my degree. thats really all i have to say. 
have you within the last two years experienced a time of crisis or hardship that caused psychological or emotional distress. it could be in relation to a difficult break up, a death in the family, peer conflict, difficulties in school, stressful exams. 
i definitely had difficulties in school that sent me into that depressive episode which i previously mentioned. but other than that there werent any break ups or anything. 
how would you describe your mental state during that hardship? 
uh very negative um very dark. sometimes suicidal. its almost hard to remember exactly what kind of hardship i was in just because im in such a different mindset now. 
n the past have you felt an equivalent or greater level of distress? 
um i think that was probably the most distressful event was living away from my family. 
n your mind, what caused the difficulties that you experienced? 
i think it was a combination of being away from my family as well as not being properly medicated  and not really owning up to myself when i realized i was in a depressive episode. 
how did you recuperate? 
um i stayed home, i returned to my family and they gave me a great deal of amount of support. and i took off school which took away that stress that i was experiencing with that and then when i started my job and realized that i was good at it and that i could be a reliable employee that gave me an amount of pride that was very useful. 
n you  imagine experiencing a situation resulting in a similar state of mind or even worse? 
um i tend to be, it seems that as i grow out of puberty that depression does seem to be getting less and less. i certainly hope i dont experience another distressful event, but i know that you know, life is gonna hand you curve balls. and so i try to prepare myself to have coping mechanisms that are appropriate to handling stress like that. 
o during that time of hardship, what changed and what stayed the same? how in regard to vocational functions so either work or school.
uh the location of the school changed from indianapolis to bloomington. and so that was anew city, unfamiliar territory which was very stressful. unfamiliar people, which was also very stressful and then unfamiliar subject material and just a completely different i guess subculture as opposed to being in a fairly large commuter campus versus a on campus, living on campus type of place. 
how about social functions, so what about relationships with family friends, and romantic relationships? how did those change or stay the same? 
um my relationships with my friends definitely suffered. um i had gone to iu bloomington to be closer to my friends who were there and the fact that they didnt really seem to show a lot of support, definitely, at least in my mind made the relationship suffer. i know realize that i shouldnt really have put that amount of stress on someone that wouldnt really necessarily understand mental illness and that wasnt that prepared to give me the same amount of support that my family would have. 
what about with your personality? what stayed the same, what changed? 
um im still fairly introverted during that period versus when i was healthy or when i was more so introverted i suppose um i did, i suppose i was just, i was just numb i guess with my personality. there wasnt a whole lot of vitality to it as opposed to when im healthy. usually i am cracking jokes most of the time and just trying to talk to people around me. make the environment that im in a pleasant environment to be in, even if its with strangers. um during that time period i completely shut everyone out um even my parents and so thats -  was definitely different. i guess a personality trait that stayed the same um im, i think ive done a lot of personal growth from that point, um i wouldnt say im a completely different person. um i guess it was just the still introverted but a different level of introversion. and um compared to when i was in high school i did still tend to shut people out thats no longer how i am today, um but i guess at that point, that was the same. 
nd how about with cognitions and emotions? so did anything change or stay the same um the way that you thought or felt?
um my thoughts were definitely darker um you know i wanna say they were the darkest thoughts that ive ever been thought. they definitely much darker than i usually thought. um and my cognition, i still was able to take round information that was being given to me and understand it but um i suppose that my level of understanding people and how they were acting and maybe theyre reactions did suffer as i was very concerned with myself and just what i was feeling versus just sorta understanding what other people are feeling. 
to what extent and in what ways did the hardship control your life?
uh it controlled about every aspect. um it controlled my eating it controlled my hygiene it controlled how i attended school, how i acted with my family, how i acted with my friends. how i even thought about myself and so i would say that it was fairly close to every aspect of my life. 
to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during the hardship? 
not very well. ya i was away from my parents and away from my psychiatrist and so i wasnt around people that sorta knew the signs of how i was acting when i couldnt recognize them myself. 
how were others affected by your mental state? 
uh i think my parents definitely took a hit. um they were initially excited for me to go down to iu. um you know they were very disappointed to find out that i was having such a hard time and i think they probably felt that they should probably should have taken or paid more attention to me. um maybe communicate with me a little bit more than they did when i was down there. um thats really the only thing i can think of.
nd how did others influence your mental state at the time?
um i think my mental state was primarily internally driven. um certainly teachers that needed assignments turned in did not improve my mental state and friends that werent very responsive to me, didnt improve it either. i cant think of anyone that was directly affected by it or interacted with it. 
nd what do you see ahead of yourself in the future?
uh i see a pretty bright future. i uh at least think i know the signs of when i do have an episode coming up and how to cope with it, who i need to turn to. um certainly speak with my doctors and with my family, tell them whats going on if i am feeling stressed. i certainly do have more coping mechanisms when i am feeling the stress. so i feel like i have a pretty bright future. 
does it have to be like a certain length or are you just gonna like talking and youll stop me?
um, im just talking, er, youre just talking and, uh, go as long as you want. and once you feel like youve finished, ill have some follow-up questions. so, um, go ahead.
okay, um, well, i guess the earliest i can really remember, i was like 5 years old and the only reason i remember that is because i broke my arm then, so its pretty big event for me. um, and then, i was a pretty happy child, you know, playing with my brother and sisters outside, cousins. um, i always loved school, like to learn about stuff. um, then, i was always pretty smart in class, always like the little suck-up. um, during elementary school i made a lot of like, new friends and best friends. but, most of them actually moved away by the time we got to middle school. then in middle school, i really like, enjoyed sports. i played volleyball, basketball, did some track; um, met a lot of people there. just um, it was like a really good, i would go to like a small, like smaller suburb of indianapolis, so it was nice, you know got to know like everybody there. then in high school, um, basically did the same thing but, really made a lot more connections with people got into um, like, really, into academics more, like, was trying to do good so i could be into a good, get into a good college. and then, um, i went to iu my freshman year of college; loved it there. i didnt want to be broke when i got older, so i came to iupui and now im in nursing, pre-nursing major.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ection ii: illness narrative
have you within the last two years, experienced a time of crisis or hardship that caused psychological or emotional distress? it could be in relation to a difficult breakup, a death in the family, peer conflicts, anything difficult in school, stressful exams, etcetera. (do you think you have a mental illness? and if so, what do you think it is?)
um, probably the biggest thing was, like i said, i went to iu freshman year and i absolutely loved it and then my parents were like, we dont have $20,000 for you to go back to iu. and i had made all these really good friendships there, met, met like a lot of new people that were actually good influences on me. and like, all my friends were like, whoa, why arent you coming back? and they didnt understand, like, nobody just has that much money just laying around. like, especially like, im 1 of 5 kids and the last one, so. um, that was really depressing, not like necess-, i wasnt like, depressed or anything, it was just really hard to get through and explain to people that and to just get over the fact that like, you cant always get what you want in life. 
ure. how would you describe your mental state during this time of hardship?
um it was just, i guess i was always frustrated. i was always trying to find a loop hole to get to where i wanted or to find out a way to do what i wanted and it was really depressing because i didnt want to see people to explain my situation. i didnt really want to hang out with people. so i guess i was kind of a little depressed about it. 
n the past, have you felt an equivalent or greater amount of stress than that?
no, i dont think so. 
n your mind, what caused the difficulties you experienced? 
i think just the fact that i was looking at looking at everybody else around me and i saw that they could do it. and it was hard to understand, i understand that people are way poorer than us, way. in different situations, theyre just throwing money away, and i dont understand why i cant just go back to iu. 
how did you recuperate? 
honestly, like i got a full time job to earn money to go back to iu and i met a lot of new friends there and they really helped me. they didnt care that i didnt do any they just like me for me, they helped me like do different things that i hadnt done before and they helped me come out of that. 
n you imagine encountering a similar situation resulting in the same state of mind or even worse? 
do you need me to re-read that one?
yes, please. 
okay, can you imagine experiencing a situation that would result in you being in the same state of mind or even worst? 
um like a specific example?
yeah, sure. maybe just something that you can dream up in your head maybe. 
n honestly, probably if i dont get into nursing school. i mean i am already behind, and if i dont get in that would be my worst night... that would just be devastating. 
lets see. during this time of hardship, what about you do you think changed and what about you stayed the same in terms of your ability to function like at work?
ke i said, definitely the people around me like changed. and they actually werent in a similar situation but they understood the hardship of it and they could relate to like yeah i dont have money or whatever. and i actually felt like better than them, you know i was in a better spot than them. there are people who are in worse situations than me and im just over here like i can still go to school, just not the school i want to go to. 
can you think of anything that may have stayed the same? (6:59)
definitely like my family, they were always supportive of me and they never really changed their views or outlooks, they were always just behind me in whatever i wanted to do.
in terms of your social functioning in this time of hardship, can you think of things that maybe changed or were different or maybe things that were the same? 
um i definitely didnt want to hang out with my friends much because they were always asking questions or like they wanted to just hang out with other people that would be like oh what do you, whats up with that you know and so i didnt really want to hang out with them as much but um i mean still like my best best friends they  we still hung out like they understood they didnt want to like they understood that i didnt want to talk about it and we kind of just did our own thing. 
in terms of your personality, do you feel that anything changed or stayed the same during this time of hardship? 
guess that im not as optimistic as i once was, because before i was just you know i was like its whatever, itll work out whatever. now im more cautious of like oh do i have a backup plan? do i, you know have something like that i can fall back on or something that is going to get me through if this doesnt work? 
and how about your thoughts and your emotions? did anything change or what may have stayed the same during this time for you?
um i dont think that anything changed as far as like my thoughts and emotions went, but i mean obviously youre experiencing different thoughts and emotions than you did before 
to what extent and in what ways did this hardship control your life? 
um i mean it didnt necessarily control my life, but um i mean like i guess earlier i obviously changed like some of- like i used to go out all the time with my friends, i wasnt doing that as much anymore and just also like was more goal oriented i guess to like achieve things so i didnt feel like such a failure. 
to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during this hardship? 
um i mean i will definitely say that after the like initial realization that i wasnt gonna go like it took like a week to get over it but i mean other than that, it wasnt like every day i was thinking like oh i mean its still a curse like where i get sad that theyre not there its everyday life i cant change it i cant do anything about it so i have to get over it. how are others affected by your mental state at this time? 
dont think that they were really; i mean they were obviously more like concerned like they didnt like to see me sad so they were more uplifting i guess. and then also like my friends they were just um obviously i didnt want to see them as much as they were like oh whats wrong? 
how did others influence your mental state at this time?
um what i would for the most part, most people like once i explain the situation theyre like oh you know its not a big deal. they were trying to be extra encouraging or like you know you can come down here whenever you want. itll be like more fun this way. they were always trying to find the positives of things. 
and what do you see ahead of yourself in the future? 
um obviously i want to graduate with a degree. get it like you know just be successful in whatever i do. i mean you cant necessarily tell what youre lives going to be like. i just want to be successful and happy in whatever i do really. 
do you have anything else to add that seems important that i havent asked about? 
no, i dont think so. 
k, so, i was born in the year of [year]. um, my earliest memory would be playing on the playground with my dad. um, i have one brother. um, and like, i always used to like, look up to him growing up, so i feel like i mirror what he has done. like, he would always try really hard in school, so that is something that is really important to me. um, like growing up i was, um really sociable, like i was friendly with people, and like i really liked to make friends and stuff. and, um, i would try really hard in school, especially in like, elementary school, i guess. i was like, known as like, the teachers pet. so um, yeah so, i would make a lot of friends in like, elementary school, and then like, going on to middle school i mean, like, it was kind of harder to make friends because there was like, so many people and like, you werent in the same class, like, so i mean, that was a kind of hard time for me, but not as hard. and then, high school, usually like, people say it is the best years of your life, but like, i didnt think it was. like, it wasnt hard, but like, i feel like i was just like, in there, to like, finish my credits and then get out. and so uh, in high school i had like, a small group of friends and like, we didnt really participate in like, the drama and gossip of like other um like, groups and cliques. so, then, as soon as i heard about this thing called like you could graduate early from um high school as soon as you finished your credits, so i went ahead and did that, and then i came right after high school straight to [university]. so my life is like, pretty vague, like it is not really detailed, like we didnt move anywhere, like, just stayed in the same house all my life, same town, like, basically same, like, small group of friends since elementary, and then until now. so, and now im here.
um, i dont know. i just like, my life isnt honestly that interesting. like, its very general, but, i dont know. i have a pet. like, ive had thats something. ive like, im like really passionate about animals, so like it was really hard for me like, when id lose a pet. growing up i had so many and theyd all like, um run away or like, die, unfortunately. so that was hard for me, but i mean, i dont know, thats basically it.
yes. um, it was in january my grandpa passed away and, he, it was really hard for me though because he lives overseas, so it was hard for, because i, last time i saw him was in 2007. so, because it is like, it costs a lot of money to like, go overseas and stuff to visit. so, yeah, it was really hard for me, like, my dad um, should i go into detail about like how, what happened and stuff? so, like, my dad, um, like it was really weird for me because like, one day i got home from school and like, i was about to do my normal routine, like, do homework and go to bed at like 8:00 or something. and then, um, he i saw him at home which is like, really odd for me because like usually im just. hes like coming home, and like, um, not, um, because hes usually at work and stuff. so i came home and i saw him, and i was like, well, this is weird, like. and like it, um, his eyes looked swollen and stuff, so i was like ok what is going on. so i asked him. i was like, is something wrong? did something happen? like, he is like, no. hes like, everything is ok. and so, um, and so, i was like, ok. and so i go upstairs and do my homework and my mom is sitting down with my dad downstairs, and i hear her like um, at first i thought she was laughing at something really funny because she was like, making like, these really weird noises. so, i go downstairs, and i am like, what is happening? and i see her crying and my dad is holding her, and so i was like, oh my gosh. and so, he is like, he is like. i was like, what is happening? like, what is going on? and stuff. he was like, he was like, i didnt want to tell you now, like, i didnt want to tell you so you would be able to like, focus on your like, homework and like be able to eat. and like, because like, he was my favorite grandpa. so, oh my gosh, just thinking about it, like, makes me teary eyed. but like, it was really hard for me because like, i havent seen him in seven years.
yeah. like, i talked to him on the phone and stuff, and he would always be like, praying for me. he was like, i hope you do well in school and stuff. and like, yeah, so that was really hard.
k.
nterviwer: um, that time
k.
yeah.
um, well, i wasnt entirely finished with my homework that night. so, i, as, immediately as i found out, i was like, crazy in tears. so, i just shut my laptop. i was like, im not doing any more homework, and stuff. like um, im trying to think. it all just like, seems like a blur to me. because like, it was like, such a rough time, but um i i was just like, kind of shocked. like, it came out of nowhere because like, he was like, always like, happy and stuff. and like so, that was really shocking to me. but, we just, we sat as a family. everybody was really quiet and stuff. like, we didnt say anything. and we were just keeping him in our prayers and stuff, but um like i couldnt sleep that night. i had seen him in my dreams, which was really weird, but i dont know. i just, i like, as soon as i found out, i emailed my after like, after i kind of calmed down and contained myself, i emailed my teachers. i was like, im not going to be able to go to school. so i xxxx i skipped school for like two days because like, school is also important to me, so like, i wanted to come back. and like, um, i dont want to miss out a lot because like this is college. its serious, so
tually, this was the first member of my family that has passed away. but like, ive never been to a funeral before. so, this was like a huge shock to me. so, like, i mean, if i was younger, i probably wouldnt have understood it that much. but like, i feel like, since he is overseas that is why it was so hard to like, understand. like, i couldnt, like, comprehend it in my head, so, um um, honestly, no, like, i would just like, cry over a dead pet or something and i wouldnt think of anything of it. like, i would get a new pet. i would be so happy. but like, you only have like, two grandpas. so, and then, so now i only have one left, and then, now, thats like i wouldnt say that ive ever experienced something like this before. it was really, like, it really took its toll.
um, actually, i honestly thought it was like, because he always smoked cigarettes and stuff. and so like, i thought that was what caused it, but they like did a, like, they checked for tumors or anything, and his lungs were fine which was really odd to me. and so he just died of old age. i dont know if that has to do with like, the like, lack of advancement in medicine over there, but they just said there was nothing.
uldnt eat. yeah. oh, um, like my emotional like, on top of just that, like i was overwhelmed with school and stuff. like so im a pre-nursing student here which is really competitive, as you may know. so, thats like really like stressful on its own, so that was really stressful so like, im always like trying to like do well in school, and like school is my number one like hassle. like i quit my job and everything to like focus on school and stuff, so basically
um, i sat with my mom and like, we had a talk. like, she was like, hes in a better place. and i was like, yeah, i think so. like, she was like, honestly its good that he like, moved on because its part of life and stuff. and like, he lived a long, happy life. he was like 89 or something, which is really like, old and stuff. so i was happy for him. he was like rested and stuff. because honestly, like when youre like older and stuff, its kind of hard to like, live. especially like, if youre like, aching or like you cant, you cant really do anything like go up the stairs and stuff, use the bathroom by yourself. so, i mean, i was kind of happy for him that he like, hes resting now. so, im glad, but and i was like, hes in a happy place. so, i mean, i dont know. i just tried to like, look at the better side. like, hes always watching over me, so thats good.
um i mean, he was like i really looked up to him, so honestly, no. like, he was like my rock, honestly, but
um i mean, he would always tell me to like focus on school and stuff. he was like, education is all you like, basically all you need in life. like, if you have a good education then youll be able to go far. so i feel like i had not got a push like, as, at first, i like, kind of i didnt want to do anything because i was in shock and like, remorsing i guess, and so like, after, i was like, i have to like i got really motivated, which is kind of weird, but like, i got motivated. i started trying even harder in school.  i was like, i just want to make him proud, you know. so, i thats basically what happened. 
k. so, they not a lot of people, like, know, knew about it. so, they would be like, hey whats up? and like, they would text me that night. and like, i would be like, are you seriously like, asking me this? like, what the problem for number 17 is on the math homework right now? like, i just lost my grandpa. like, i would just, i would just... i had my read receipt on on my phone so like, i, they could tell that i read it and i did not reply, so they knew that something was going on. so they would be like, what? what happened? why didnt you reply? where have you been? like, all this and that and like, i just didnt even want to talk to anybody. like, i, im usually like really sociable and like really friendly and stuff. and like, um, after that incident, i, for those two days, i did not want to talk to anybody. and, um so then, after, i mean, it took me a while, but i mean, now i could say that im over it and were in april. so, i mean, even in like, march, like, i think about him every day but i wouldnt say that the stress is like and sadness is debilitative. like, im, like i live every day normally now, so, its not
ke we were all closer, because he was like really kind to all of us and like really sweet and stuff. so i feel like we were much closer, like, everything was more like, silent but affectionate, you know. and like, we were like, holding and hugging and like stuff like that. and like, just being around each other like, meant a lot because family is basically all you have. and like, so that was nice, and like but when, like, when i found out, i didnt want to be with anybody. i wanted to be alone in my room crying. so like, after i got over the crying thing, i would like, i went downstairs and i was like sat, i sat with everybody. and we were all there for each other, so does that answer the question?
was like, why is this happening? like, i didnt understand like, why something like this would happen out of nowhere, so, um i mean, i was really like, angry. like, i had a lot of anger. like, i wasnt even positive about anything. like, i was just frustrated. i was like, why this? and then, i soon came to like, realize that like, hes in a better place, so i mean, i guess im back to what, like, the bubbly person i was. but not too bubbly, just kind of
um, like, i, like as i said, i dont want to be redundant, but like i was really upset. and then, i just thought about it. i was like, its a fact of life. like, nobodys going to live forever, so i was just like this is his time, so, hes lived a long, happy life, and i was happy for him, so thats good. 
well, usually, like i said, i was, im like really into school and studies and stuff, so i was like it was something really crazy for me to like, take a break for two days. like, im so used to like, working and like, doing, like always doing like, schoolwork and working ahead and stuff. so like that was just odd for me because like, i felt so behind after it. i was like even more stressed because i was so behind and stuff. and like, i just felt like, people werent understanding. like, they were just like, teachers were still expecting things of me, and i was like, um, i just lost my grandpa and i had like, i got like zeroes in the gradebook. i was like, you need to like, feel with me here. like, and so finally i talked them into it, and they let me like redo the assignments and stuff, but
h my gosh. ok. so, i was a mess when i first found out. like, i was in shock. i couldnt believe it. i was crying. i was like, i feel like i was screaming when i was crying. it was not ok. but, um i honestly had zero control. i was like crazy insane. like, i locked my door because i didnt even want anybody to see me. so, i mean i was just sobbing like crazy i just like 
um, ok, so my parents arent really used to me not eating that much. so they, um, felt bad, they were like, um, you need to eat. we dont want to like, take you to the hospital or something. so, i like, slowly but surely they like, got me to eat, and basically, so it, um, um, was hard for them to see. like, no parent wants to see their kids like, upset and like, going through like, a crazy time. so, i mean, it was hard for them, but i feel like it was even harder for them to see me like this, and my brother. so, i feel like it, um, didnt make things better. it made them, it made it worse for them. like, it intensified it, i guess. 
um, well, like i said, like, people werent understanding, so that just frustrated me even more. i was like, um, you need to feel with me here. like, i just lost my grandpa and it was really awful. like, and some people were just like acting like it was whatever. like, um, they sent out an email like, to like our family, my friends and stuff. and like, some people didnt even like, say like, im sorry for your loss. so like, that was really i was like, wow, like, some of my friends didnt even like, say something. so, that was hard because i was like, i guess all i have is family and stuff. so, i mean, what was the question, sorry?
nfluence
yeah. so i guess they like, made me even more mad, and i got stressed and stuff. so basically thats it.
um, i see myself probably, hopefully, um, trying hard, working hard, like getting into the school i want to get into, and... just, trying to live like, a happy, successful life, i think. because he really, like, even after his last like, i wasnt like going to let it go for nothing, so like i really want to try hard and work hard and stuff. so i hope to be very successful with like, a nice quiet life, nothing too crazy, and, you know, thats basically it.
um, no, not that i can think of.
k, well, im from [town 1, state]. its a small town. its like 35, 40 miles west of here. i grew up on a farm. um, we have cows and horses and pigs and um, everything. when i was a kid, we traveled a lot. we rodeoed. um, my dad used to raise bucking bulls. i used to trick ride. um yeah, its weve just um, kind of done a lot of cool stuff. i graduated from [town 1] high school. i started out at [tech school 1], but i didnt really like it, so i transferred here. um, i have a sister, a younger brother. i have two nephews and two nieces. im getting married in june, so
um thats kind of it. im having, ive, i kind of like, done lot of like, different jobs throughout my life i used to make pizza. that was my first job. and then, i was a meat cutter for a while. and then i work at a auto parts factory. so, yeah, thats kind of it. 
no. 
no, i wouldnt say anything. like, everyone has stress. i would say its all ordinary stress. 
[interruption: door unlocking, greetings, conferring with lab assistant, lab assistant leaves, door closes.]
um...
um
yeah it was kind of stressful transferring here. just like, figuring out like, where everything was, and its just like different, it was like really different here than it was at [tech school 1]. so
n that was pretty stressful, but
dont know. um i was, it was really, really stressful um i dont know, i just kind of kept to myself and did my own thing, just trying to figure out where everything was, really, so thats kind of reclusive i guess. (laughs.)
no, i would say that was probably like, my most stressful. 
think it was just like a new environment and not knowing anyone and not being familiar with things are. and like the policies and stuff here are kind of different so, um. and like, the classes are obviously way bigger. [tech school 1] was kind of just like high school. so, it was a different transition.
dont really, im not really good at like, meeting new people. like, i have tons of friends, but im not really good at like, making friends. im not overly like, outgoing or anything like that. so i think that was probably the most stressful part.
h, im sure there are plenty, like tons. (laughs.) ive i wouldnt even like, know where to begin. im um sure there are obviously tons that are way more stressful than that. 
um the only thing that changed was like, going to school here. i mean, like, i still commuted from home. my job was still the same. i saw like, all the same people like, in my daily life. i got a new nephew well actually, two. i had nephews. that was about the only thing that like, changed.
yeah.
no.
yes.
got engaged but, other than that i dont think so.
getting engaged 
h, im 
ure i was kind of grouchy, but, i mean id say i was probably moody, probably. but id say thats fair enough to say.
dont know. i was just trying to figure out what i was doing. like where, like where i was and i mean, i was stressed and nervous about being in a new place.
would say a lot. i was really, like, really focused on like, doing well. so i would say a lot. and youre, like the amount of effort you have to put in to things here is just im not trying to diss [tech school 1] at all, but its just, its just completely different, like night and day. and like the amount of work that you put into the classes here compared to there is just its no comparison, at all. so yeah, i was definitely more focused on like, my school work than i had been in the past.
um i would say, i mean i dont know. im kind of a private person. i really kind of keep my emotions and stuff to myself, so i would say i control them well. (laughs.)
um i dont know. i would say my parents were probably worried that if i was going to like adjust how i was going to adjust and how i was going to like it. and id say my fianc felt the same way. so, they were worried about if i would like it or not just because it was so different. 
well, i have a friend that does go well, actually i, um know several people that go here, but my best friend goes here, and she kind of like, she was the one that like, really pushed me to transfer. 
well, im getting married...
want to be a dental hygienist, so id say getting married, starting my life that way and then wrapping up with school to have a good career.
no.
um, i was born [date]. i um ive been around the sport of volleyball for the majority of my life. i actually continue to play. um throughout my life i played different sports: basketball, softball, volleyball. um, i stopped playing basketball first. stuck with softball. um and played club volleyball all the way up until i was eighteen, and then i got a scholarship to play here. um 
did it stop?
y birthday is [date]. um like i said before, (laughs.) ive been playing all kind of sports since i was young. i played basketball, softball, and volleyball. i stuck with volleyball and played all throughout high school and ended up getting a scholarship to play here. um, big things that happened in my life, um, my junior year my parents got a divorce. um other big things, more happy times, would be just all the success that i had in volleyball. um right now im in my second semester of college, and its almost over, and i plan to finish, um finish well, and eventually once i graduate toim managing sports management and minoring in business, so id like to still stay involved with athletics.
yes. um, the divorce of my parents definitely took a toll on me. um just recently ive been having um, relationship problems with a boy. (laughs.) and, thats about it.
um, with my parents, i was definitely really angry. especially with my mom. um im the type to be mad for a little bit. and not talk to the person, so my mom and i didnt speak for a while, and now, um, that times passed its a little bit better, but things are still a little bit rocky.
no.
um, just the fact that um, i never thought that something like that would happen to me. so, it, i think getting over that fact, or that factor, and having to go into something um, that youve neverthat ive never experienced is justi dont deal well with change, so the change was a big, a big factor for me.
um time, really. just had time to think about it, time to calm down, i guess.
n you repeat the question?
no, not really.
um, school functioning was fine. id say i kind of went a little wild in my social um, my social like, relationships, like my friends and stuff like that.
um, the relationship with my mom definitely, um, decreased. we just didnt do the same things that we used to. um friends, i became tighter with them. and thats it. i didnt, i didnt have any, um, no boyfriend at the time.
um, more justive always been the quiet type, so my quietness still stayed the same. um, i did keep in a lot of things, so built up anger happened too.
how did they change?
um, my mindset never really changed. it basically stayed the same. ive always kind of been, or had the mindset of um once youre married you dont really stop being married. (laughs.)
um i guess a way it controlled it was it kind of changed my schedule a little bit. um, you have to stay with your dad. you have to stay with your mom. thats really the only way it did.
r the most part pretty well. um, there were occasions where i had break downs, but id try not to show my emotions at times, so for the most part um, i stayed um, normal. 
um i guess my dad was more, um always trying to like, help me get through it, and my mom i mean, i didnt really want to speak to her, so she, i mean, shed always try her best to like, be there for me, but i didnt always take it. 
um, my friends were a big part of just keeping my mind off of things, and um, volleyball was a big distraction, too.
plan to graduate and find a good job and start a family um and kind of live the lifestyle that i did. ive always i was kind of spoiled. um, i got a lot of things that i wanted, but that was just because with both my parents success, they provided for us and let us have the things that we wanted, and i want to do the same. 
 yes
 ooh cool, nice
 yeah, absolutely. have they set the tabl ike who is seated where?
 yeah. im looking forward to that, thats going to be fun
 hello!
 yeah you are good to go
 alright ill see you then. and so at that is that when the outstanding student awards are given out
 the outstanding student award?
 ok
 do they give one per program, is that what it is?
 ok
 ok
 oh! yeah,thats not good
 hello!
 maybe if i saw their face
 okay. sounds good
 oh, are these the ones from the other day? 
 ok so they are just like, they are getting it for next semester
 which is umm what is that? cause there is three in fall [end of rec]
 you are welcome have a good day
 record. whats going on man. well, like, it records, like the sound surround and um[inaudible]
 no, i guess- i guess not i mean it says on the thing, whatever. 
 it was through my psychology class, we had to participate in research. but i had already hit my 2 like credit like mark or whatever so after that um like not all of them are paid but this one was and i qualified for the second portion. and so then i agreed to the even the at home part of the thing where i give like um saliva samples. yeah, yeah. beause something theres definitely in your saliva that will um like its and endorphin or whatever that you can tra- track through your saliva that shows like stress levels
 if they do thatd be sweet, but yeah.. a super power would be nice though. it would be a [inaudible]
 you know what im doing. so i have to do this for two days
 yeah yeah and i have to [inaudible] and answer everytime it pops up with a bark, and its called, the app is called paco and its got a dog on it. and so it would pop up and i have to answer it [inaudible] as the stress im under [inaudible] stuff like that. 
 so im stressed out
 just checking. rent. 
 thank you
 i was going to try to pull in um to see what transferred um but its acting weird and um james is not available right now so um if you want more of those details um definitely schedule an appointment
 ok excellent
 so james or whoever you are meeting with can um go over in detail on that um do you have like any specific questions about the cj program or..?
 um you can just sign up for those classes um like you dont have to necessarily be in the school um so thats something um that you [end of recording]
 i have a vote for him
 oh really. yeah
 yeah, yeah seriously. specially those- those points right on there as you can really trip people off. and its stupid because they are different classes and why does it matter. [inaudible] i guess
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 oh wait. thats what up. he [inaudible]
 what?
 yeah tell her that was one wait. we picked the same guy
 i picked [name], [name] and then [name]
 was it that girl?
 and i kept to the male facilities so i was like
 is that b?
 basically i try to figure out like what they are saying
 yeah like what they are talking about. but my thing in [inaudible] talk anything about [inaudible]
 i mean one might talk about overcrowding
 congrats on the [inaudible] by the way
 congrats on the [inaudible]
 thank you
 yeah
 oh she is?
 i dont know, 
 i dont know, if you want to ask..
 heres the thing. if [name] does want [inaudible] then like you could get in the masters and she could be student counselor. because [inaudible] both [name] and i wont be here
 well the good thing is no matter what position you are in theres no like
 yeah and i get that but like at least this year you know it may change or something but like we really didnt care what the titles were
 so yeah it looks good, you know, but as long.. heres the thing as long as you show that you were in a leadership position it doesnt matter whether you are president, secretary or vice president none of that matters it just matters that you were in a leadership position in a student organization
 but i see what you are saying you want to be president
 no
 the special thing is serving your people
 and you can use it, if you are in a leadership position you can use it to get [inaudible]
 yeah?
 yeah [inaudible] dont kill yourself
 yeah i [inaudible] work team, kicked my ass so
 [inaudible]  actually leaving, like some are senior but they are doing a grad program something like that
 you staying in media[inaudible]
 yeah we can get it but well find [inaudible]
 who did you have?
 im about to work
 dont what me. how far are you?
 who?
 that wasnt my aunt
 [inaudible]
 its dirty.
 i got um my laptop [inaudible]
 a spare tire
 no, [inaudible] i dont know what you are talking about.
 [inaudible]
 no
 [inaudible]
 ok
 i need that on 9 
 i know [inaudible] famous girl [inaudible] last night
 i guess. neil you took a picture with her
 we got a red pair and a 12 [inaudible]
 you need the blue can with it. you got the blue can?
 [inaudible]
 ok thats good. i was asking because we have the deal you can get this one, the orange can, and sneaker balls for 9.99. you can have
 you can have two cans but its up to you. you want to do it?
 [inaudible] i can look you up what is your [inaudible] time?
 just one second
 um ok so when we got the shoes that nobody likes. so say somebody came and asked me for that one [inaudible] i wont bring it out
 i mean it takes two seconds to look online
 say what color?
 i mean what i recommend like if you are still stuck on that shoe just go online you can google find that shit online probably not at like [inaudible] check at like foot locker. it has your heart set on it dont [inaudible]  
 you are a 6 so you need a 4
 what about you?
 um well anything else i can offer you. we got socks buy one get one free, the nike socks, buy one get one free. we got shoe [inaudible] and stuff also
 with the box, the box all three are in there?
 yeah we have this kit like so for ten bucks you get the waterproof, the cleaner and sneaker ball all [inaudible] for ten bucks
 so basically [inaudible] now that you have already taken that one but its a good deal. and its still going i think after this week. each sneaker ball like basically what you do, you untwist it and it gets out the odor on shoes, gym bags, closet whatever each one last you up to 6 months then you got to use the [inaudible] 
 waterproof spray on hats, on jackets, shoes its got [inaudible], its a liquid repellant so if you spill something on it, you get caught in the rain, step on a puddle it wont mess up the material and it wont get your feet wet
 you got it
 good night, sir [inaudible] night?
 ok
 i didnt know that
 alright three one
 [inaudible] two seconds
 [inaudible] we aint got it man because he was busy [inaudible] you can tell him 
 buy it. 
 buy it. 
 ok now is bad news, we lost it its not where its supposed to be, i checked all the other areas
 yep, castleton
 not sure
 no problem
 nah we good we good
 what about him?
 hey
 you need anything?
 [inaudible] same shoe?
 [inaudible]
 good night sir
 [inaudible] i have been working on our cleaning kit, have you had- er tried out our cleaning kit yet? alright so basically youll get the cleaners, the waterproof and sneaker balls all for ten bucks. its a deal we got going on just for the weekend um i recommend it for those specially because the blue part on here is a little [inaudible] get those wet and could mess it up
 yeah the cleaner is for like the white on the shoes, the waterproof you spray the whole shoe with, its like a liquid repellant so any type of liquid you get on there is not going to mess up your shoes, is going to run right off, instead of sticking to it
 water can mess this part up
 yeah so what it is.. ill show you how it works. you got time?
 alright
 are you trying to do me a favor? can you do me a favor, nevermind i got this right here. 
 you got a water bottle, little bottle of water
 why we aint got none of the like water spray bottle [inaudible]
 thanks. whos been messing with the cleaner kits things. im trying to show a dude how this works and we got not[inaudible]

 you can get all three of them in the pack. like it would be this, the cleaner, and the sneaker ball so what you do is you spray this on the whole shoe
 yeah so [inaudible] the whole shoe [inaudible] this is water so this would be like any type of liquid, or whatever remember i sprayed it in the middle. see how it sticks outside, the water that i sprayed there just sits there. thats what it would do with the shoe, instead of sinking in [inaudible]
 yeah so if you dont get the waterproof if it rains outside like after a while it might start to getting a little fuzzy, you might see like the color start to fade. with that, it keeps the water from messing up so therefore the color wont be [inaudible] anything to worry about
 yeah you spray it on shoes, jackets hats whatever
 did you want- do you want to get it? 
 you want to get the whole kit, the whole kit comes with this, the cleaner and the two pairs of sneaker balls all for ten bucks
 alright, ill get you a new one
 i know [inaudible] still recommend this, this is 6 bucks, this is ten bucks, four more bucks and you get a whole [inaudible] this by itself is 6 bucks
 yeah its just to clean. like you get a [inaudible] mess up your shoes, spray it on, wipe it off and they are coming right off
 [inaudible] shoes for you
 what do you mean? on the printer? i got more
 do you have a card? [inaudible] over there
 [inaudible]
 you too
 i got all the 12cs we had, like thats not jordans we have in that size [inaudible]
 yeah
 we mostly got jordans in 12c like other than that is just [inaudible]
 nothing for yourself today? 
 cleaner kit on sale is 10 bucks
 alright [inaudible]
 [inaudible] hello chief
 what color? 
 mhm [inaudible] hey you said you printed up? alright
 i got these shoes im trying to get rid of
 he dont want them [inaudible] ive never worn them
 you guys alright
 kid
 ok hey [name] right here
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]college. where you go to college at?
 [inaudible] its windy like really bad out there
 alright so this, size 6 is that biggest size they had on this one
 yeah i got that 9 for you
 alright
 you alright ladies? 
 you alright, sir?
 from the bottom three
 ok what size of shoe?
 nine. [inaudible] kids so first section right here. you see where the flip-flops are. right to the right, that first section, the top [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible] seven thats for kids [inaudible] so that top row, those two
 um what the difference is with sizes so like say like you are 8 in womens what you do is substract two numbers and that would be you in kids 
 yeah they will stop at 7
 no they stop at 7
 yeah
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 alright you need some more time?
 mhm i mean i some [inaudible] too. its just how they are, they are really comfortable, i like them
 you want to [inaudible]
 alright now seeing that i have these shoes im going to recommend them for you. we have these cleaners, its a kit, those get dirty pretty quick so 
 yeah and the cleaners youll get the shoe cleaner, which you just spray on the white part, on the white [inaudible] and dirt comes right off
 it comes with waterproof, which you just spray the shoe down and like rain or anything wont mess it up and your feet wont get wet when you go outside 
 and it also comes with sneaker balls, you put them in and it makes your shoe smell good
 all that for ten bucks 
 and i recommend it for those shoes
 no no i have had these for a while
 yeah i just get mine like i dont know if you [inaudible] i keep mine in [inaudible] 
 so if you are the same way its fine
 alright im going to [inaudible] 
 whats up my man [inaudible]
 alright so itll be this
 ok
 [inaudible] so this one would be the one that prevents water from messing it up, and this is the one you clean your shoes off with and with these you just put them in your shoes and it gets rid of the odor
 yeah thats what its made for
 yeah
 ok you said seven and a half?
 what do you think? you alright?
 alright well if you need anything else just let me know. no problem
 yeah what sizes?
 ill check for you
 no problem
 [inaudible] they will open it for you
 alright if we do you want me to bring both of them out?
 excuse me, sir. you ladies are alright?
 neil has it
 are they paying on card?
 [inaudible]
 im an aries. mine is in two weeks. alright [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 yeah just im going to have one of them. im send one of them your way
 [inaudible] you say what? [inaudible]
 [inaudible] having a wingman
 for [inaudible]
 for [inaudible]
 yeah [inaudible] bow on the hat?
 yeah
 yeah, what he said nine? i thought he said nine and a half. what else does he want? [inaudible] what color [end of recording]
 first name
 j-a-m-i-e?
 zip code
 70.59
 this is [inaudible]
 alright, ill see you. no problem. i swear, she was high as fuck. i was helping her out since 8 oclock, its been a whole hour. 
 a whole fucking hour
 actually i was bouncing, i had other people
 shut up
 actually i wa-
 it depends what you mean by talk, like i got female friends but girls that im interested in..?
 one
 that im interested in?
 but how many girls like i text thats interested in me then i tell them im not really interested
 right if i have to tell you straight up. like you said [inaudible]
 [inaudible] lie for them
 [inaudible] counter
 can i help you with anything?
 is it the [inaudible]
 i can go grab it real quick  good job [name] knocking shit over [inaudible] nobody hit you up yet man? nobody hit you up? dont be a [inaudible]
 [inaudible] [talking to himself]
 thanks, man.
 ah, yes thanks.
 [inaudible]
 god damn it. theres my jam. [inaudible] so good!
 [inaudible] i didnt even think id last [inaudible]
 god damn it. what the hell. i thought he was going to go behind the back, and he ended up turning around.
 i think it couldnt play. i thought right here, he would get it right behind his back and [inaudible].
 [inaudible] go back
 [inaudible]
 they dont [inaudible]. yeah.
 did you fail your [recording stops]
 wow. [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 oh, yeah, probably not.
 are you guys going to the [inaudible]
 [inaudible] i realize i came home um. i just want to go home and [inaudible] my first time eating the xxxx ground beef. [inaudible] i want to go to the [inaudible] worked there for 2 years.
 yo, all i hear is excuses! excuses!
 im just being a dick. [laughs] dude, chemistry makes me so happy. 
 i love chemistry. my bitch. [inaudible] no dude. i have to walk around with this thing. [inaudible] butts. [inaudible] bitch ass. [inaudible] really good.
 [inaudible] worried about [inaudible]. are you going to leave your door open?
 im tired. its just like, you know when its like, damn.
 we were supposed to go to the zoo today. now its like, nope. when i woke up this morning i was like were not going to the zoo.
 yeah, pretty much. well go next time i dont get blackout drunk.
 guys, [recording ends]
 i wish there was more c106 people. this is bullshit.
 [inaudible] just dont do it. if im not here, its not even worth taking. 
 yeah, it mhm.
 yeah, well the math is a little different. like, its like more algebraic math.
 algebraic. like, youve got, and a little bit of calculus. like, at one point you try to involve integrals and i was like what the fuck is an integral.
 yeah, i had no idea what it was, because im taking calc now.
 one. one six five. its not fun. [name] dropped it.
 yeah. 
 whats 231?
 no, 231 is life science calc. im a chemistry major. i have to take a higher, a different calc class. im not a life science, i am like a science science. like, im not a health science.
 no
 well, thats just life science calculus. all that is is an easier calculus. its the same exact thing but easier. yeah, i need to take.. oh hes, because hes probably getting a ba in chemistry. im a bs, im a bachelor of science, which is all um math. a lot of math. its not fun.
 yeah.
 that was like me yesterday dude. yesterday my mom was talking to me, and
 nothing has happened in 3 days.
 no biggie. the fuck dude.
 [inaudible]
 why?
 was i just doing that or something?
 oh, and you guys are like, okay. i was like, i was so confused. i thought it was like one of those things, i thought it was like one of those stupid things where its like; you cant like, move your head back and forth and have your mouth open. and it makes it look like youre sucking a dick. because i thought you guys were doing, like, some of that bullshit.
 oh my god, thats why i was like what?
 yeah
 i think so.
 thats going to be me, dude. and then, and then when i hit a midlife crisis i am going to start making meth. no, no, when i hit my midlife crisis i will.
 she got pissed. fuck that bitch.
 my teacher didnt like a joke i made.
 yeah.
 she was not uh, she was not pleased.
 it, but, it, uh, happened and she was not happy with it.
 she commented, she said a very um, passive aggressive response.
 yeah. very passive aggressive response. and i was like okay bitch.
 yeah, exactly.
 i think i just found the concentration by plugging in to the hasselbalch equation.
 i think thats how i did it, honestly.
 like, i did um, lets try it actually.
 yeah dude, what i did was, when i found my concentration of nh4+, which is
 the new concentration. using the new concentration. i did that, and then all i did was nh3 divided by nh4.
 you were given your nh3. the nh4 is what were looking for. so, yeah.
 no no. itd be, sorry, itd be the one you found. point one three six four.
 yeah. 
 that is a crazy ass, what is this number?
 oh.
 thats really, uh, uh, small.
 yeah, so do that. and you should get your concentration.
 yeah. nh4 is
 nh4 is fourteen, oh.
 that wasnt right? thats what i did, this point zero six six six value divided by this value. which was the, what the molarity i found.
 eight point
 okay wait, uh, uh, hold up.
 why did you, you skipped a step. you just went from, you know how we calculated for our pka? you didnt subtract the pka from the ph. 
 no no, but you have to do um, because you know how you separated the logs?
 you didnt, you didnt account for your pka. your pka is separate.
 you didnt account for it. its not in there.
 i didnt see it. oh thats it. oh
 okay. 
 okay, uh, and then you guys did that, okay. nevermind.
 mhm.
 no, i was laying in bed, and i was ready to get up.
 im really tired.
 like, 3
 [inaudible] yeah, pretty tired.
 yeah, im like,  thats why i wanted to leave at 10
 hold up, hold up. what do i need?
 [inaudible] im tired.
 i feel like death.
 yeah, you talked. or, what happened was like, you were like, you knocked on my door. and i was like okay. i didnt brush my teeth, im going to do that. but um, you knocked on my door and shit and i was like oh hey, yeah im awake and then when i like laid back down [inaudible] and i was thinking about chemistry. and i was like trying to solve a xxxx problem in my head.  and i was like, halfway through the problem i was like holy shit and fell back asleep right as [inaudible].
 what are you talking about?
 i have two more chapter homework to do and then i am going to take this exam.

 i have to do like, im on nine point four out of nine point six. and i have to do nine point four, nine point five, nine point six homework and then im done. like the, uh, little extra credit thing. just so i understand like
 remember heisenberg.
 oh. cant [inaudible] yeah, he has his own [inaudible]
 i dont know dude.
 [inaudible] just uncomfortably dusty up there. 
 oh the top of it too?
 spring time, why?
 oh yeah, thats the worst.
 shit, i was, i just had something to do in my head, and i clearly forgot it. 
 this is awkward. yeah, wheres the xxxx? 
 oh. thats roast beef. im not going to lie, it looks like the whole bottom is filled with roast beef. 
 yeah dude this is all roast beef. 
 one, two, three, four, five.
 i need to find 3 more empty trays. [name], any idea where i can get them?
 oh, this is for the paper?
 five trays here for [name], i need to cover five more trays. i only counted eight, eight could be uncovered, because thats what we have room for. now the rest have to be covered. 
 all right. one, two, three, four, five, six.
 one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
 pka are the same, dude. except, no, okay, b is equal to oh
 yeah.
 because oh and then it would be, concentration of oh times ha and then a minus on the bottom, im pretty sure. because remember when you do a kb, when youre doing kb its like all opposite? like, write out the equation
 yeah
 i dont know why thats so funny.
 oh my god, i did. i literally like jumped back from my seat, i was like woah.
 it was like a three year old, no, it was like a three year old kid. 
 yeah
 wait i dont get this dude, because when we were xxxx  they said the ride is literally going to be five people for the last hour and a half crammed in a little car. but the camping pass fits four people. 
 yeah, but i am not about to pay $160.
 well they havent told me anything yet, like i dont know.
 its, i thought it was me [name, last name] and [name]
 [name], yeah. but now apparently its like some other dude who lives down there and then one more person. no, five people. thats five people.
 i think so, like were picking someone up on the way down there. 
 i dont know. but either way its going to suck dick. 
 yeah. 
 oh shit, they dont even know that. 
 wait, i dont even know why, i need to ask my mom for more money. i was like shit, i dont even have enough money in my bank account to pay for this. i blame you guys for my
 hey, who wants to go see xxxx with me this friday. anyone, anyone?
 xxxx?
 dubstep.
 at the, ill play a little bit, its dubstep, its at the uh
 no, at the egyptian room.
 not spotify, um, soundcloud. its downtown.
 yeah. soundcloud and i want to look up something [inaudible]
 oh, what do i want to show you guys from xxxx. ill just play the xxxx mix.
 no.
 yes you can. its dark. but what i like about it is that like, its darker shit. its like dark dubstep. its like hell yeah. hope it doesnt get too loud. i dont want that to happen. [inaudible] the shit [inaudible]. 
 thats your concentration of your um, the stuff, no im sorry [recording ends]
 and then [inaudible]
 mass of xxxx?
 that, uh, uh, new, uh, thing that um xxxx has got to be called new.
 its xxxx by [name].
 yeah.
 [inaudible] a lot of them.
 i thought it was graded.
 thats how i did it. the first exam i did it at, like right when i answered it id be like, and that.
 thats what happened to me, i got really pissed and i failed it. i was like fuck this test, it was too hard.
 well, my ta said that we didnt have to know like, this table of electronegatives.
 well she just said that the electro negatives you need are like right there
 it goes from like highest to lowest.
 thats the one i wouldnt know. i could not find radius anywhere.
 [inauduible] decreases this way?
 okay.
 yeah, ive done all of them dude. 
 what was it again? 
 oh.
 but look at like [inaudible]
 yeah okay, that makes sense.
 and i think we [inaudible]. but we didnt like, figure out.
 well, im actually understanding it now. i feel so good [inaudible]
 (laughs)
 thats what i planned on doing friday but i ended up sitting here doing this freaking thing over and over [inaudible]. im not learning anything im just doing the problems so im not actually learning anything.
 yeah, see thats what i need to do. thats how i learn. talk it out, talk about it, and visualize it in my head
 after last night [inaudible] and then 
 what? what am i doing?
 that sounds awful.
 god damn it this sucks.
 huh?
 what, what is, what?
 you have to leave now. 
 just go. just go home and do it. right now. (laughs)
 [name] is a bitch.
 why would he talk to someone like that? so violent. [name] is a mean person, hes a bully. 
 hey [name]
 huh?
 yeah dude? 
 so you did your, so speed of light divided by what? 
 okay. 
 okay and that gets you your um, your v, your frequency.
 well even if you multiply this value by three
 wait, whats h in? i mean lets uh, h is in joules dude. these values are all in kilojoules.
 oh so you multiply that by a thousand already.
 no.
 all right.
 you have a xxxx?
 almost. im going to finish it in the gap before we have it.
 it helps knowing we have that outline. 
 did you know we were planning on staying after? 
 you just sort of ran off, like literally we were watching you run away. i was like haha, he doesnt want to stay after to xxxx with xxxx.
 yesterday, i mean tuesday.
 we, [name] did the did you check your email? 
 we found that paper, with all the outlines and everything, and then we sort of planned it out from there. 
 you should go to the bathroom.
 you should go to the bathroom, because you said you had to fif.. ten minutes ago. did you forget? (laughs)
 youre welcome. thats what friends do. (laughs) i know. 
 cool. are you putting it in yours? 
 are you putting it in your powerpoint or anything? or just something you found?
 was it creepy?
 the 17th.
 (laughs) sure.
 oh this sucks.
 my [inaudible] used to go through the phase of like randomly walking up and trying to give each other dead legs. it was the worst.
 he does. one time i fell down because i couldnt take it. it was a little embarrassing. (laughs)
 thats evil. are you saying youd beat me up in front of the school bus stop? 
 i am a scrapper, i will fight you.
 theyre the ones who have to go through it. i dont know exactly what the experiments are worth, but..
 she needs to add the questions still that we did yesterday.
 it was only like 3 slides, but
 yeah, yeah.
 oh okay, gotcha. 
 and then we form it into a paper, yeah. 
 okay yeah thats a good idea. 
 this is our last time to meet. 
 nothing
 as long as we get through the presentation fine, i mean yeah. its no big deal.
 if you want to.
 whatever. 
 right. 
 has he talked to you about what questions and everything? 
 [inaudible]. we got the rubric. 
 which part of the rubric were you doing? yeah, so youre all right. good job.
 he doesnt have his laptop here today.
 last names.
 what, did you write your first name and then write your last?
 no, she just wants us to write our last names. 
 theres only one people of us?
 i dont even know their last names. 
 im a good typer.
 you know its coming back. [inaudible]
 you sure?
 you started the sentence with pretty much.
 you started that sentence with pretty much.
 no.
 the first circle is small, you put both circles the same size. 
 what? uh shoot. lets see, house spiders are [inaudible]
 okay
 yeah, but shes getting [name] so she came back.
 yep. 
 you put it everywhere?
 i hope [inaudible] one there, one there. i cant believe youre still using that.
 yeah but [inaudible] exercise.
 where?
 its a terrible parking lot though.
 go to the right, its on ronald regan, its like another..
 yeah.
 sure.
 i dont know. it only records like 5% of your day. [inaudible] good bye.
 (laughs) nah, you can take it off. [inaudible] this can be harmed. and im not going to go to the bathroom because that just seems weird. (laughs)
 (laughs) yeah.
 wait, you were xxxx this morning?
 in the parking lot?
 yeah
 either of them sounds good.
 what are you having?
 sure. 
 [answering phone] hello? sure.
 oh pretty good!
 someone go buy the box there and come drop it here.
 i am, i am! sorry.  i had to buy the box and it was half across the map. here, i got them. youre good. 
  so do i. 
 no, youre good. no one is coming anywhere. 
 yup. 
 i think its one hit kill until like level 14. its the same thing as a belly knife.
 nope.
 its either one hit kill to a certain level or they run out of energy eventually. 
 get to the chopper. 
 yeah, i am here. 
 wow, you guys are way ahead of me!
 hey, you guys want to trade spots? i will take the hole in the wall. i got a sniper rifle.
  yeah. 
 i think that was partly my fault
 [inaudible]
 oh, really? coolcool
 oh, okaydid you get some of your
 before you ran the background did you [inaudible]
 [inaudible]all sorts of messed up
 [inaudible]im like, oh, yea i dont know what that ismmhmmand i didnt want to add so much[inaudible]and then, um, i smelt [inaudible]
 i swear[inaudible] purified wateri just spilt waterno
 with my luck, yea[inaudible] or somethingwater spilt on the [inaudible]
 oh, theyre coming out with a new one
 [inaudible]
 im sure on somei really wanted the one with the watch on it[inaudible]
 hello [name].
 let the recording commence!
 research
 ummm, i did like a 3 hour study yesterday, ummm, as for like to get some research credit for one of my classes, and got paid $10 to do it. its just like, ummm, mental healththings like that, like psychology, and theyre trying to get a better understanding of everyday life, so this records at random intervals, for a total of about 5% of my day, and i wear it for 2 days, answer a couple phone calls, and then keep a log of what i did each day, and i get $50 for 2 days.
 so
 but the thing is, like, before they [inaudible]its just an ipod touch is what it is[mumble]
 [inaudible]ope there he is
 [making noises/singing]
 i have a cottage i would go to. in [state]. its not, we dont own the cottage its just
 [british accent] its called victoria resort in [city, state].
 i dont want to go to sleep!
 in this situation[laughing]
 this is a big banana
 oh its yours?
 you have quite a large banana
 youre like rubbing your banana all over your face [laughing]
 youre hurting it!
 [inaudible] the banana
 im going to have a recording of all my classes, and i have to go to all my classes.
 not much, whore you doing?
 20 more cards on tuesday
 but no that [inaudible] is good
 oh really?
 in english or spanish?
 i was going to say, dang
 [laughing]
 no
 do i? not as of nowkill me thursday [laughing]
 i guess now that i think about it, i do have quite a bit of work
 yea, i know, ive got to get, i got to  get rolling
 i know, yeah, like doing a group project for chemistry, and a research paper in here. i got a group research paper in english
 yeaand i have an annotated bibliography due mondayand pretty much an annotated bib for this on tuesday
 oh, yeai do like that
 i really like that
 hmm?
 yea?
 i already did
 yeaall i really look at is [inaudible]
 and the shoes
 oh, im just waitingthanks, though
 yea
 man, i just must be that guy
 oh, no, i know it when i look at it
 yeaive got an eye
 [laughing]this is true
 awe
 what?
 that coat
 that black one over there you pointed out that you said you liked
 its originally $100but its marked down to $70, and its 30% off of that
 $40 maybe50% off
 [inaudible]
 oh, my badit kind of looked
 yea, its a little summerylike an athletic shirtor a baseball t i should say
 they dont?
 hmm
 oh, ok
 i like that one a loti dont think you should get both
 just leave itthat ones got the shoulder piece for the hangeri know what you can find
 i like this one more
 well get these, look at how cool these are
 theyre also $9 [laughing]
 no! i dont know
 some tube top for a very big person
 oh, okaythat makes sense! [laughing]
 stupid infinite scarf got [inaudible]how much are jerseys? how much are big jerseys?oh
 there actually morealmost 70, some are 69.99
 oh, then i have to dress up too
 okayyou could be wearing these two
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 you picked like a nice comfy shirt
 that kind of sucks
 aye, aye, aye
 theyre so soft
 what are they made out of?...
 yeaas soon as i get through all the jeans
 27? is that what it says on the tag? oh, these arethis is a different style of shirt
 look at the neck
 yea, but this has like a weird tint
 oh
 its no longer recordingit doesnt constantly record
 otherwise that battery would not last
 oh my godhey, [name], you should bend itdid you hear its bendable?
 well, yea
 hes one of the best professors? how do i know
 i need to look up crayonspass the goggles[laughing]
 im sorry, what?
 [talking to someone in background] fennel is a food.
 fennel seedfennel is a food.
 you guys missed it, i was belting some mariah carry christmas music in the lobby area, earliermmm, i was getting it.
 a booty-wich
 [name] [inaudible], oh my goshim so sorry[laughing]
 that was some of the best booty i done ever made
 no its [name2]
 sup? were eating food
 you can have some
 oh man
 text message
 no its not thisits recording now
 what? thats my phone
 that was just my cell phone
 yesi got that from themi cant like, its locked and has a passcode, so i cant, like, use it for anything else
 yea, i know
 thats in the bunch of paper work that i did not read, and signed
 im not going to lose itknock on wood
 oh my god
 when we do rounds, we go on every single floor
 hmmwe walk like every inch of this building
 yep. you do it by yourselfsometimes when you have to make like a really late round or whatever
 going down to the basement my yourself and no ones down there, its really dark
 yes! now i can eat my cheetohs
 theyre serving me rotten, dusty food last night
 im going to smear my orange fingers all over your wall
 [laughing]
 white is even betteri guess i could [inaudible]
 i knowthats why im leaving it up to you[laughing]
 whats up girl, what are you doing?
 [name 3]?
 mmm
 ive got one fucked up baby then[laughing]
 racist? how is that even racist?
 thats like medicalist
 being discriminatory against, like, what is wrong with you
 eat the banana
 shut up, quiet hours
 what are you eating?
 so it is papaya
 sometime last night the recorder shut offbut i might get a call because they call me throughout the day, and theyre like, what are you doing? how good you feel? how bad you feel?
 i dont think ive gotten one yet todaybut it wouldnt surprise me if i dont get one soonits just like 3 minutes on the phone
 yea
 itsthe first one that i did was, it was like three hours. half of it was an interview, and half of it was a bunch of testsum, and just mental health and college students
 ummm, but then the other, the second one is, like, theyre, like, trying to nail down, like, typical daily routines and like conversations with the people around us, which is why we have the recorder
 yea, probably how that contributes to my mental health 
 so
 i finished off all my research credits for psychology, so [inaudible]thats one thing i can check off of my list
 i know, right?
 i want it. can it be [inaudible] dog?
 dang itgas is still pretty cheap
 that is impressive
 what? [laugh]
 [laughing]
 [laughing]
 i wouldnt have put more than $50 of gas in this ever
 yeathats alrightim used to driving a little honda civic, $35 fills the whole thing up
 oh..
 when gas was like up to like $4 a gallon?
 cool[name of mall]
 it doesnt look like its open
 oh, i have heard of tha-, about that
 huh[yawn]
 oh, i know that was thethe first cracks of the day, those are the ones that feel amazinghopefully this coming week isnt as busybecause like, this past week ive been tailing for [name of organization], like, monday, tuesday, wednesday[sigh] its starting to drive me nuts
 so hopefully that one works
 hopefully we can show up
 right now?
 [laugh] at first it was, uh, our first attempt was unsuccessful
 [inaudible]
 like the program with everyone put together, and what are we going to do each week, agendas, like, what is this? like, blah blah blah
 those places arent too bad, as long as you read
 have you ever had taco bell breakfast?
 no, im curious
 [sigh]
 hey, how are you?
 im going to work with what i got here
 yes.
 oh! sure
 so what do i do now?
 okay
 okay
 okay
 do what?
 no, its flat
 what?
 well my card doesnt work either, so i have to get the master
 the duty foam is somewhere underneath all that paper
 seems like all ras dont have access to the model room near that weird stairs and elevator
 well well get the door opened either way
 yeaeither way we are going to be here
 this whole thing isnt working, and then surprise!
 yep, for a little bit
 like, 1, 2, 3, and then you would have to try and remember which ones were skipped
 blowing my mind
 another thing they had me do, was that they had, ummm, they were like poker chips, and there was a ton of them, and there was a bowl in the middle, and i had to pick up the poker chips at the same time, ummm, one with each hand from each pile, and, ummm, place them in the bowl at the same time, and like they made me see how many i can do in like 60secs
 it was two hours of testing and like then an hour long interview
 as long as i get the money, i dont care
 after while crocodile
 im just chopped liver over here
 theyre making you choose
 [laughing] oh, i mean its good that they didnt shatter the whole thingi mean i kind of expected it to be gone
 its so cold
 well come over here and warm me updont just say i know[laughing]
 geezi really am chopped liver
 you know, i think im going to get a tummy achejust for that
 [inaudible]woops
 [sigh]
 i know[laughing]its like ball and chain
 no
 do not block intersection what is this person doing? oh, blocking the intersection
 here let me help you warm it up
 well see
 i could help you with your math.
 she is? how much is she? how much do you pay her?
 someone needs to get a dog whistle out.
 a dog whistle out. [inaudible]
 [inaudible] some lady keeps like stepping in the door trying to get your attention. i dont know who it is. shes pretty tall. yes she looks like she needed you, or maybe she was just waving. she came in here twice. i dont know what she needed. so if we have to pass our papers you will have to read my old reference paper. did you write yours?
 did you say you just printed the old one?
 are you gonna change it?
 you had to add [inaudible] to your other two papers. here she comes.
 awesome because i forgot all about, i forgot the other one. i was trying to remember what it was about. i dont think we have to do that. only if you want to.
 i do believe. thats great.
 i dont know what that is.
 its all girl stuff.
 [inaudible] and stuff like that.
 watches.
 i would want that.
 yeah
 oh i like watches like that. where you can see the gears.
 click that one over there. [inaudible] thats gay.
 what thats gay?
 [inaudible] rolex?
 which ones are you referring to?
 the ones that doesnt have headlights or anything.
 i know. [inaudible].
 it still looks like a lot.
 lets say you click on that one. does this show the price or stuff for it?
 im proud of you.
 we need [name] to win.
 [inaudible] bad ass tattoo.
 go. 
 triple. yeah, no. 
 [inaudible] that guy who like keeps consistently doing bad. its gonna end this way. thats hot.
 [inaudible] he was in the competition before he forfeit.
 oh yea whats up.
 why the fuck do you have a shirt on but. what do you think is good right or left?
 show it
 oh did he?
 charged for making a video?
 ah. you need to text him.
 community service.
 really? [inaudible] do we need to be in here for the final or what? thats what im wondering. 
 i didnt. i didnt think she did either. 
 yes. the whole battalion. 
 if theyre late then were doing something wrong.
 yes. 
 no.
 then she gets here at fifty-one and you lose your final. 
  technically, if the professor doesnt come within 15 minutes then were good to go. 
 did they change the standards?
 just find it in there.
 we had a huge discussion about that in my last class. 
 thats better. see thats crazy.
 i didnt know what else to get so i was like ill get a cappucino. its one of those shock orders.
 for the like i dont know. burgers i guess. 
 thats what im saying.
 im always uncomfortable around you. it has to be 16 or you have 16 done
 where did you guys go out to dinner the other day? 
 its like chocolate?
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible] he got censored. [inaudible]
 i didnt say it, my dad said that. [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 [name] isnt here so i have nothing to talk about for rha until he gets here. i dont know if anything went down because i wasnt able to do the speech today. i want you to talk about the breakfast menu. 
 seven to eleven
 pm
 breakfast at the tower.
 jag tag.
 and were going.
 no its we are going. were going. come on just stop by. please support
 so next monday then.
 at the tower.
 yes all housing residents so
 its free
 we have a girl that said she still has twenty six meal swipes. she just hasnt used them.
 we have sign-up sheets.
 give them to me.
 no
 we have our sign-up sheets because were running these study tables tomorrow night. i almost forgot, and sunday. i expect us to be there to participate in some of it. so we have a thursday shift and sunday shift, and those are from nine to eleven and eleven to one. so just make sure you write down the time. or lets do that now, just come write your name. 
 yes and these are
 well they were already there. i was already there. so im assuming. hopefully we get a lot.
 and also sign up for the hot chocolate thing too. last week. 
 sorry, it wasnt that great but it was fun. and after this were gonna [inaudible] and notice our study tables. and thats like about it. [inaudible] i called you big boy because he wanted me to slap you across the ass, like i guess. 
 i say big boy to everybody. i was like i suppose. i didnt ask for it but i guess it wasnt bad. 
 oh yeah. fifteen bucks.
 yes yes. i can make that happen. im literally killing myself.
 obamas idea right?
 thats that what thats for?
 im getting ready to head out for a walk anyways. 
 what did you say.
 whenever [inaudible] what if its like on the bus?
 [inaudible]
 yes
 ok
 its different
 its just like you dont see it in your lungs right now at this moment.
 hi. how are ya.
 how are ya.
 good. you studying? you doing work.
 a lot of people think i smell good. im just going to go with it.
 im just going to go with it.
 is it me?
 ok
 cause your [name] roommate?
 we dont know more than likely. do what?
 im sorry bud.
 99 percent chance you will.
 and shell probably last until the end of this next semester.
 shell probably last until the end of the spring semester.
 alright d, adios. alright i think im going get going. 
 i should probably start working on something. ive done shit today.
 how we doing. how are you.
 you got this. you got this. its not that bad.
 you got this. you got this. you can do this.
 i dont take math [inaudible]. im done.
 have a good day chaps.
 how we doing? [name]!
 i was like he just went off.
 i talk to everybody.
 welcome to university tower. the place of awesomeness. im not saying that because im an ra. 
 do what?
 the best food you will ever have. aka, the best food you will never have. shes still here. you got this. you done better than what i could. you lasted a semester in it.
 hey babe. watch this.
 its not gory or anything.
 i sent a picture. i was like we found a music star. she was like you could do that! 
 rock bottom brewery. which is good, but its like one of those thats just like come on now. lets experience the whole thing.
 i like the hole in the wall places that are like
 yes. i dont know where my friend mindy ran into the city. but we can try. [inaudible]. im starving.  so hungry. [inaudible] interesting. i didnt know that this was his place. huh.
 kind of has to be. cool. [inaudible]. bodacious bbq, but the malls this way. but, where do you want to go. [inaudible] the trees are so cute. where do you want to go? we ran into like the pubs and stuff, and that way is like the mall. like that corner is technically the mall. 
 well. hold on that cars going to jump. you know what, actually, lets walk over to this circle. lets see whats neat over there.
 [inaudible]
 i hate pizza so you are fine with me. [inaudible]
 yes. if you want to [inaudible] walk this way. tiffany. oh thats cool. 
 the wreath and the lights like that. 
 not this year.
 really? [inaudible] a friend of mine met somebody. her group said it was. it is expensive, exquisite. i dont know.
 you were like, im going to regret that tomorrow. im looking at twenty bucks total, tips in there, somewhere in that range. maybe a little less, if we can go less thats great. but im also not feeling like fast food. well walk here. whats your opinion? what do you feel like? i know youre just hungry, and im literally.
 yes. you need to eat!
 really
 [inaudible] that would suck if it did.
 yes
 of course
 oh dear.
 well we are definitely going to go this way.
 really. 
 hmm
 really.
 you too. you look so young.
 its, thats fun. 
 why
 you dont wear toms anymore? 
 [inaudible]
 i dont like it. 
 really.
 thats funny.
 alright
 yes
 sean is having a hard time because of that fact hes going to basic for a full year. he doesnt know how to handle it so hes lashing out on people who happen to be his best friends. thats not good. alright lets go this way.
 aww
 oh goodness
 we be going crazy.
 [inaudible]. bacon legs turn tables.
 [inaudible]
 no 
 yes it does, im like i dont know make this, and i got to like drum.
 [inaudible] nope unfortunately not
 thank you, check out my pictures.
 better? want the rest of this?
 bet you wish you would eat a blueberry now. [inaudible] i just want to lay on my big comfy brown couch on the second floor.
 yes.
 you can probably finish today but, we only wrote like three words already. [inaudible] at night.
 so happy, im like thats my biggest [inaudible]. its risky business, hes going to do like 19 minutes for indiana [inaudible]. so hes originally from peoria illinois. and with him and like three other guys from my floor and like three girls we all go to church together every sunday morning. and so ive gotten to them very well. yes. but it was really hard because i was put on as a preference for all the new guys and i couldnt take two. i could only take one. i was also recruitment chair. 
 well we had 18 so its easy to know everybody. its not like we have six hundred girls. everyones casual two hundred and fifty girl pledge class. you know no big deal.
 your pledge class is bigger than our biggest sorority right?
 yes its mau.
 what!?
 its like i dont think we talked except for like once or twice since thanksgiving.
 yes
 wow 
 ok 
 ok
 yes i remember them too because they had all the lights.
 [inaudible]
 arent they the ones with the that have like a tiger in their basement or something ridiculous .
 thats look. look.
 thats gross
 [inaudible] yes and my eyesight 
 yeah there was a eyesight back there.
 there was a skirt of yours that big red skirt.
 thats so weird.
 very what?
 yes. i love this season. i hate freak show.
 i. i never. i stopped after like two or three. its, its too weird.
 ok. i kind of like this. minus the bottom.
 do what?
 didnt you have something like that?
 wheres your bun pumpkin? its like little girl on the prairie type thing. i forgot my ninja gloves upstairs. the always have a main purpose. pictures of like the longest time up there. 
 [inaudible] hold on a second. [inaudible] what me to carry that?
 i cant i used to [inaudible] its been like the longest time. [inaudible]
 that was like the last song really.
 really? what was so bad about it?
 really
 i mean like. 
 theres one in the back. always in the back. theres an aunite anns they have cinnabons. but like those really just have baked goods. starbucks has like everything here plus more. roam the movie theater. where is it? the movie theater heres crap though. 
 [inaudible] do you still have a discount with
 yes. that is nice.
 im going to work with [name] to learn more about the finished recipes, but other than that just to give me some ideas. and then also once the side of the app comes out im going to work with the developers of that app in order for us to get the most use out of that and get the most feedback. we can use that to the greatest potential. i really do think that is a good resource that we have to our advantage. especially for the other apps that cost a lot of money. this is a free resource that we would have and we could take advantage of. and i would like to use that to [inaudible].
 my email right now is a little bit messy. im a little bit stressed with my finals. but on a typical typical week, i have two emails. my main account usually has about eleven emails in it, i usually read the emails every night. and then my school email ill keep no more than five five to seven emails in there any time. so its pretty bare minimized. 
 its a three day store rescue tonight. i will.
 do both of you have your own copy of the acf?
 whats seventy three divided by two?
 yes
 ok
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 from the acf
 oh gotcha. well you officially have this one.
 i was trying to think of that. that was so
 yes.
 [inaudible]
 i was very happy that we [inaudible].
 i do i pay for everything.
 yes
 yes 
 shut your mouth quit talking in here woman. is what it is. 
 i love you too. how are you.
 yes. oh my goodness its two different colors isnt it?
 [inaudible] organic?
 [inaudible] hey. its my last semester ever.
 but, im making straight as in all my classes and im so excited about it. and i talked to this andrea and were going to choose the best candidate for going to texas a&m for masters in [inaudible].
 housing, alumi, or decorating. doctorate [inaudible]
 i probably want to be dr.[name].
 yes. so.but its alright.
 who?
 oh god. thats a blast from the past. how is he?
 i havent talked to him in ages.
 yes
 we just never talked again. it was like hey ill talk to you tomorrow and like tomorrow never came. and i was just like [inaudible]. i broke up with him on social media hes done. i got someone now im so excited.
 youre like the [inaudible].
 really? against [name]?
 i just had a feeling that she would be.
 because i thought she said she was forever ago. 
 i also dont like her most people dont [inaudible].
 i have no idea. i just dont like her. shes annoying. is she an ra still?
 she works with housing in some way shape or form.
 does housing pay for all these?
 [inaudible]
 i think i forgot to take my pillow. i dont know if i did.
 [inaudible]
 which one is it?
 whatever.
 i figure if my um [inaudible] before you get home and i can see or know what house it is. [inaudible]
 right. like oh i am just washing the windshield 
 honestly i thought [inaudible] offered because its pretty old.
 god been around [inaudible] much money at all. 
 mm hmm. 
 thanks you for your hard work thats always great. 
 that was really nasty. 
 [replies to the tv] oh my god it can
 please tell me you made that [inaudible]
 whoa
 okay.
 i was. 
 i was going to [inaudible] and i thought about it and decided i should probably wash this every now and then. 
  i am an idiot. 
  because i totally should have tested that before i tested it. 
 i poured something down there to see if it was a blockage [inaudible]
  well if there was a blockage then it did overflow [inaudible] but now there is nothing [inaudible].
 hmm.
 [inaudible]
  i am going to fill it with water. i think i need more water to test it out properly but pretty sure it is [inaudible].
 out get out 
 you mad?
 are you mad?
  did you just hit me?
  love you too. 
 youre the worst.
 come here.
 [inaudible]
 no, no, no. 
 no.  [inaudible]
 well then dont make me treat you like a child. go. give me a kiss. [inaudible].
 im sorry. i said im sorry. 
 [inaudible]
  yes you do. 
 i dont care. youre not allowed to sit back down on my bed until you do.
 what do you mean? oh this thing that i have to wear? it was probably just the ipod. okay go.
 oh okay, i thought you were going to um [inaudible] and i was like thats not on the way remember.

  yeah, its like. unfortunately its not a white mouth.
 white mouth. you cant like. . .
   yeah, pretty much. 
  you have to let it like drizzle . . . like come in your mouth. 
 yes.
 i like it. youre tap water taste like shit. 
 i know your tap water has a filter.
 oh right! fucking um steak n shake yesterday. that water tasted awful!
 dennys is always bad though. 
 dennys. . . i went there. . . the first time i went to dennys, i was with karen and justin. if i ever see justin again im going to have to. . . i owe him a big fucking apology, i really do. 
  for not. . . like i had stopped talking to him. thats the guy that had that thing going on with. he was my friend when we were little and yeah.
  okay, oh nothing. never mind. sorry. 
 okay, remember that thing that i told you i would never tell you? 
  well that thing involved justin. 
  but um, like i stopped talking to him after it happened and um what was i saying? oh yeah, yeah, yeah.  if i ever saw him again, i owe him the biggest fucking apology in the world for not talking to him.  i am not saying its not rightful like its not necessary.  would you fucking honk at this guy? 
  seriously?
 oh, i didnt notice. i thought. 
 i feel like a dick. 
 [inaudible]. damn i feel like an asshole. but yeah anyway. if i see him again, i owe him an apology because he was home schooled and i was pretty much the only friend he had and until he started going back to public school. so yeah.  smart kid though.  really talented musically. well. kind of. 
 he wanted to play the piano and saxophone. which reminds me im going to have to steal that back.
 yeah.  my saxophone i left it there and i wanted to play it which is weird as fuck because i dont usually. i dont even know where the fuck i was going with that justin story. i was saying something and then it like totally diverted. 
 its alright. 
 nah, you wouldnt understand better. [inaudible]. dennys dennys first time i went to dennys i was with karen and justin. karen is justins guardian um and yeah. i was there. 
 umm, florida. 
  yeah. i hadnt or i didnt talk to justin while i was in ohio. um justin was here in indiana but hes in like out in like cascade area. you know where cascade is at?
  [inaudible] school district.  um, fuck what was i saying? right right. i got the sprite and it was just the nastiest fucking thing
 it was their water man. it wasnt even though it was out of service, it was just their water.  or we told them that we thought it was out of syrup and they came back and it was better but it was still fucking nasty
  the first time it was shitty tap water plus it was out of syrup and then the second time it was just fully stocked syrup. shitty you totally know you went the long way around right?
 i know, i know. 
 right instead of left. you could have turned right instead of left
 [inaudible]
  right?
  wasnt going to go there. 
 so, okay.  i was like so, still? 
 i just realized that was a very fast and very underappreciated joke. 
 they did the whole [inaudible] thing. 
  but they did it in like fast forward. 
 [inaudible] going on.
 didnt like the fill in the blank. thats the one thing i didnt like. 
 mostly basically the ones that youve guys got covered a lot of the stuff a lot of the same.
 she curves it doesnt she too right? 
 well she tells us she tells us our somewhat final grade today too. 
 up to this point yeah. which is kind of awesome. does she like how does she do that? does she like tell us to the class or?
 okay um im going to go ahead and do this. 
 this um [inaudible] opportunity. 
 im almost in honors college why? 
 im going for it next year i just [inaudible]
 yes.
 i dont um know. um i wouldnt know sorry.
 i dont know. um.
 an intentional act or admission [inaudible] um no. admitted without justice 
 oh yeah. an intentional act or admission in violation of federal criminal like.
 no. god whats the third line? its always the third line.
 law. 
 criminal law. is it really? 
 okay, so an intentional act or admission in violation of criminal law admitted without, uh, defense or justification sectioned by the states [inaudible]
 its always that third line.
 [inaudible]
 so its like well this weekends been great dont want to do it ever again. well i mean the thing is this next weekend i go to leave for chicago. the weekend after that i go to south dakota. the weekend after that she flies to california. the weekend after that she comes back from california. so like i dont [inaudible]
 spring break. um she lives about three hours north of here. so i mean thats not bad its just i am just going everywhere she is going everywhere we wont see like we wont be spending time like weekend time for like a month. so its just kind of like its okay.
 then what kind of sick is it? 
 [inaudible] what is? explain.
 oh. 
 [inaudible] on the screen.
 [inaudible] kill the screen. are you going to use the board?
 does it help?
 its you. you do you boy. 
 hey hes talking he doesnt speak loud.
 aw wow look at you [inaudible]. this things bugging. 
 what is crime?
 you want me to do it? 
 okay. 
 no
 [inaudible] maybe um. yeah that works. 
 [inaudible]
 oh yep. 
 maybe you didnt [inaudible]
 whats that?
 do you have a piece? 
 surprise me.
 oh. [laughs]
 [inaudible]
 i can make my laptop just eat your laptop. 
 mines a monster. good job on getting your r.a. [inaudible]
 youre at the tower correct? awesome.
 i didnt get one so. 
 um. 
 um, okay.
 its okay. dont worry about it. 
 its alright. most people were kind of shocked that me and [name] didnt get [inaudible] and [name] got it. 
 why?
 me and [name] went out to dave and busters. 
 um, you dont know what dave and busters is? its pretty much a restaurant and its just got a whole bunch of games. and you just go play games, like big arcade games. 
 oh we wanted to go have fun; we spent three hours there last night. 
 had a really good meal and then we went and just had fun. 
 it was sixty dollars last night and i just had fun. and we came back and i went to [inaudible]. and now im running for [inaudible] president. 
 did you know if [name] from [inaudible] got it?
 did [name] from [inaudible] get her spot?
 i dont know. 
 thank you.
 getting there. 
 yes. so now i have to like do my [inaudible].
 yes.
 no um i know um exactly what youre talking about. i think you know i tried to plan like three or four times, maybe five times to try to meet up somewhere and do stuff [inaudible] i mean im usb rha utc grades girlfriend, work. 
 i mean i was doing, i was going for r.a. position i didnt get that.
 exactly. so im going after r.h.a. president because i um i mean i switched gears right like that, because i had that in my mind i went out to dave and busters and spent three hours with my girlfriend last night. [laughs]. because i just needed to get [inaudible] spent like eighty
 just go.
 see well ive got like three books in my room. right now i finished [inaudible] i mean.
 it was a fast read, yeah. right now im reading a book i got for valentines day. im almost done with that actually. and its actually a really cool book its called everyday by um its pretty much about a person that lives in a different body every day thats in his age group.
 and so he pretty much
 so he pretty much lives in, well hes still himself, hes like his own being but hes in different peoples lives every day. so then youve got the lovey dovey side so he falls in love with this one girl so like that so he keeps you know hes in different bodies so thats not [inaudible] of it.
 yeah, but he kind of like um a is the guy, thats the characters name. this guy that wrote it i think um [name] i think was his last name, but uh, yeah exactly i had never heard of him either. but he just um its more of a male kind of character [inaudible] the author [inaudible] the thing, just jumps, from every day to a different body and he has to like go through life access the minds of like the. its interesting.
 but at the same time, its like, okay it was a quick read. i only have like sixty pages left in it.
 whatever.
 im going for honors. 
 yeah.
 yes.
 okay.
 no its a lot of work yeah. thats one thing that [name] told me that [inaudible]
 see i cant do that but if i hear sounds i can remember them really easily.  i guess thats more musician side.
 exactly.
 yes. i dont think i study that much and im going to be honest about that. 
 i mean i went to all the and peer mentoring and stuff like that and i just kind of pushed myself through it but this time i was just like i guess it was just the first one i was just kind of like eh.  
 now i know what to do. 
 no. and i know that im going to have to see all of these things later on in the future so why not get to know them now.
 exactly. 
 whats it called?
 oh, no i have not heard of that one.
 [inaudible]
 will be disappointed. does that make any sense? did you hear me?
 educators hoping that digital games will be a silver bullet because they are exciting and motivating will be disappointed. 
 listen, this is what it says. educators hoping that digital games will be a silver bullet because they are exciting and motivating will be disappointed. 
 so how about i just get rid of the will be disappointed put dot dot dot dot and put quotations around it. so educators hoping that digital games will be a silver bullet because they are exciting and motivating. 
 um
 oh, i thought you were talking to me i was like woah um
 i know um 
 no um. dont say um youre sorry. its just kind of like i was sitting there trying to do, um something and youre like go back um and i was like [inaudable]
 oh thanks. 
 because it doesnt like you. 
 what? i like you. i like you a lot.
 finally.
 nothing um 
 yep thats why i did it. um ouch.
 i was going to kiss your foot. 
 i was just going to give it a quick little kiss. 
 when?
 when?
 no. i really dont. no i havent talked to her i didnt talk to her today. oh i did actually. [inaudible]
 what?
 i dont know do you?
 im sorry. 
 i dont know how to take that what you meant. i um was confused by it. 
 i havent said your nuts. have i said youre nuts? 
 i dont count?
 ouch. 
 i better freaking count. i like you.
 promise?
 [inaudible]
 for some reason. great.
 [laughs]
 oh im talking to my next years roommate and shes literally just down the hall. 
 yeah. want to just move this out the way?
 there you go. oh my god i need to vacuum this thing.
 you run a mile? how long does it take you to run a mile?
 eight minutes? 
 you need to run faster. 
 i can do a six and a half minute mile. 
 i got on the treadmill and went [inaudible] put it up to 8 miles an hour and i started running. and i was like okay. and then eight minutes passed and i was like holy shit ive done a mile and like .1 i was like lets slow it down. 
 i run 8.
 and then but thats the thing. its like then when i went the next day im like shit. how fast can i do a mile? set to 11 and ran 11 straight.
 miles an hour yeah.
 i know but you got to remember that im also 65. i have long [inaudible] legs. [inaudible]
 thought i was [inaudible]
 yeah.
 [inaudible] and then jump [inaudiable]
 dance around yeah?
 yep. and then i do whatever? yeah. and then itll.
 i thought i was picking the girl up?
 [inauidble]
 they told me something completely different. 
 so theyve changed it a little bit so you do that. so what im doing is apparently im starting off like this and like im like a happy fire.
 im still in the middle yeah im a happy fire.
 im a happy fire and then i jump up and im just like dancing around and then i just do my own little thing. and then, uh, i go down [inaudable] and then thats when we jump follow around i get in the back.
 and then its like whatever. and im just doing my own thing again.
 yeah apparently im doing my own thing.
 i just dont know when to pick [name] up. 
 okay, do it again.
 im just going to like do it myself. 
 ill just like dance. 
 so im like um happy. no you dont have to get up. just be [name] and im going to pick you up a little bit. 
 and then how about im like [inaudiable] im a happy fire oh and then.
 im just dancing. oh no now im in the back of the line. 
 and then hop and then stop. and then were just dancing again. 
 so when do i go?
 i dont know if i can do that. 
 i mean, okay well hold on. no um i got this. just watch your head okay?
 there. there. happy?
 [inaudible] thats the first question [inaudible]. oh. a couple seconds later. did you run?
 why were you guys in the mac?
 oh theres no quiz today. 
 oh.
 yeah. what did he get?
 how did he do on the test?
 [inaudible]
 they need to clear some of this fucking shrubbery. 
 i have no idea what im doing. you protect the shit out of your clan castle dont you?
 damn dude will you get better?
 yeah youve lost control. are you even in a clan? no.
 so youre your own clan? you have not played in for fucking ever.
 what is going on here why is the sound coming through your tv?
 oh.
 i dont need to see you going positive. still sucking dick. 
 he doesnt even have the right gun.
 he doesnt even have the right gun. what are you trying to do?
 fuck it.
 yeah watch your dick. see i can use this gun.
 because i only had like a minute left of playing less than that even.
 why dont you just punch him?
 let me show you. one more death. youre losing this game anyways so. 
 this dude thinks hes bad ass. 
 youre fucked. look to your right.
 i dont know what that means.
 i dont know. 
 my aunts, my sister my mother. theyre like are you okay? im like.
 why, uh, wouldnt i be? mom?
 i will.
 im pissed at you. 
 you made a joke of [name].
 yes. how many things can i not fucking break?
 oh my gosh.
 so are you not going to go to board room? youre just going to go have fun [inaudible] because apparently we need to have more leadership skills.
 im going to go talk to [name] not tomorrow. no maybe tomorrow. friday im going to talk. no not friday. bloody fucking hell.
 [inaudible] im going to go, uh, talk to [name]. its a good thing i knew that was coming because it would catch me. its like the same kettle we have at home. oh no never mind. we have [inaudible]. i ordered my shirt today for my [inaudible]
 i know what base jumping is. [inaudible]
 [inaudible] off a bridge okay.
 well.
 yeah.
 people jump someone jumped off of one of the buildings there. [inaudible]
 in west virginia they have a like west virginias.
 oh, yeah. in west virginia, it has a, an amazing white water rafting and stuff like that. and they um, one of the bridges we go under after you get to the end of it or after no after you get to the z. before you get to the z you go under this bridge. and this bridge is where they base jump off all the time. they die if you dont do it correctly you might die. because the z is right after that and the z is the expert level part rapids. it is seriously you have to do a z. so you go in you stop you turn you stop you turn and then you jet out. and you get out as fast as you can once you get past that third straight and i mean it seriously was like i dug in, dug my arm under the rope, the other arm under the rope for the paddle, and the guys like ready? and im like um most of us were like yeah lets do this. and i just went go. and he like and we got to one side because most of the time if you fall off into a rapid you just get to the surface as fast as you can, and ride it. if you get stuck under a rock youre pretty much dead. unless you can find your way out of it by like reaching around and feeling, because you pretty much know where you are. but youll be able to reach around and feel the rock and grab yourself out from under it. but if you theyve had people die at the area. or they had one person die because they had a little memorial there and stuff like that.
 and thats actually white water rafting. and i mean its just it was horrible. and the guy, we were just like we got down we turned and we were going to the second turn and hes like alright left side. and we got to a rock we pulled up our paddles and we jammed into the rock and scooted off of it.
 and then we had have you ever heard of surfing rapid?
 so what it is where its a weird scenario. so its rocks okay?
 and the rocks come out so theres a little mini waterfall. but there is also little turning motions. the water comes like that and goes under. 
 so its like a little cyclone. 
 the thing they like to do at white water rafting is take that and stick the front of that right in that little zone and that whole back end lifts up out i got thrown out of that thing.
 and i had to swim we were really far out and then swim to the other rafts to help pull me up on board. while i turned around my raft was still like they were trying to get themselves out of it they were too deep. 
 what are you looking up?
 i think i have my bands i think i had my marching show here on campus. it was horrible though. 
 we ran out of tissues. im surprised we have to make a run tomorrow. ill make a run for you tomorrow okay?
 theres got to be some tissues.
 i said i know we dont have to i will. 
 what, which kind do you get? do you get like any [inaudible] special stuff in there or do you just get regular kleenexes? 
 [inaudible] glasses look like molecules.
 take a drink if you have to. stop drink. i stopped. take a drink. im sorry i didnt know, uh, i dont know what its infecting you its not infecting um um me anymore.
 and i also
 oh it stopped at 3
 [coughing] have been sick
 around you i have been sick. is this thing on, you can like hear it. [coughing] 
 sounds good.
 i havent had tequila in a while. 
 what.
 lets go get some tequila tonight guys.
 i got that.
 i think everyone like [name].
 oh wow.
 sweet.
 [singing with radio]
 really? youre running a marathon?
 oh still.
 another buddy of mine has been like catching marathons here and there.
 i could never get in on that shit man.
 yea
 are you ready? is the marathon here in indy or is it in layfette? 
 alright.
 [singing along with radio] 
 whats that?
 yeah i think so. [singing along with radio] i was listening a little bit to that [name] album last night.
 yeah
 yeah its dope.
 yeah hes got some cool sounds on there. 
 yeah
 word, yeah that totally is..
 hell yeah. thats awesome.
 yeah dude thatd be tight. [singing along with radio]
 excuse me sir. alright.
 [clears throat]
 [cleared throat]
 [singing along with radio]
 [singing and whistling along with radio]
 [singing and whistling along with radio] 
 im supposed to keep this on. its a thing for a survey. its recording voices every so often. 
 well i dropped it in the toilet because it was on my belt. thats why it got all nasty looking. 
 ok. cool.
 yes it does that.
 nice
 now what do we start working on?
 sup bro. 
 vanilla milkshake sounds nice.
 its decent.
 nah
 alright. you all done did that yesterday. the other day you kept saying my time my time. are we the same time?
 well theres some down there like [inaudible] 
 yeah it is. 
 come on [name]
 [inaudible]
 what?
 umm no but i need them.
 delivery fee?
 what you call me?
 seriously.
 i cant steal a license plate. [inaudible] i dont trust you with my paycheck alright.
 i can give you a couple quarters. 
 is anyone else working?
 no?
 youre getting what?
 [inaudible] i was just trying to confirm it.
 im gonna grab ummm. im gonna grab [inaudible].
 you know that ive been lied to.
 theyre no longer here. [inaudible]
 how are you doin?
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 i know man they keep it jumpin in here.
 [inaudible]
 whats her name?
 no everyone here [inaudible] did everyone get service?
 is that all of them?
 hey id save em if we have em. i got all jack. excuse me guys.
 yeah. hey theres a limit isnt there.
 alright excuse me man.
 yeah.
 umm. all this stuff needs to go back to the 
 no. the tables set up with food on them 
 umm could you [inaudible] real quick.
 yeah
 bro [inaudible] hell yea.
 im not very successful [inaudible] some scratches.
 [inaudible]? oh yeah because ive got xxxx right here.
 [inaudible] not these clippers. maybe some kind of super duper pooper clippers that my mom has but.
 so is [name] just stomping everywhere?
 its funny that your mom got me this razor, because i had one of these sent to me in the mail one day, at your moms house. are you still living there? they sent me like i think this exact one. except its the older version. [inaudible] the other one. [inaudible] thought i heard [inaudible]
 ha, sucks. for you
 i know.
 where? baby
 [inaudible]
 who doesnt? who likes the [inaudible] but not [inaudible]
 go get him. [inaudible] my eggs. ill whoop you.
 nope im
 i am careful
 yeah, but, look how hes been lately during the car rides. hes been kind of grumpy, you had to sit back there and hold his hand the whole time but get him to stay calm. and hold his xxxx so it wouldnt fly out.
 im not trying to be a negative nancy im just trying to be realistic. realistically he is probably going to cry most of the time.
 and he always pukes out any time you try to feed him lunch
 you what?
 no if you cut off a bunch of it at one time youre going to hate yourself
 no like even if you cut it to here youre going to hate yourself, i swear to god you will. do you know how long i lived at the beauty shop?
 you cut it off an inch at a time or a couple inches at a time, you dont cut off six inches at once or youll freak out.
 im just saying she shouldnt go straight from what she has now to that. like you want to ease into it.
 if you wanted to do it you better ease into it. because im not going to listen to you bitching whenever youre like [shrill banshee screams] my hair because thats what every freaking woman who walked into moms beauty shop would do after she forced mom to cut her hair off every single time.
 yeah and then ill call you a dumb blonde
 yeah she just shoved it up my nose, its not like its going to [inaudible] i was like no because youre going to [inaudible] and shes like whatever and im like
 burn a bunch of them at one time.
 a little path?
 this is [inaudible] all kinds of xxxx have you seen it?
 pretty sure they played this song in shrek.
 yeah
 yeah. i dont know what the hell theyre saying. [inaudible]. yeah not on a hilltop. xxxx was in a tractor or something. [inaudible] as soon as the front end comes up [inaudible] going to stop. going to be a huge [inaudible] dont ride that much do you? big ones right?
 no it was a complete accident.
 so shes coming?
 so its not happening? [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 ive never been so hungry. im still hungry.
 you already ate a lot of popcorn
 im holding it. i want some. you guys have been hogging it all up
 silly girl
 i dont know
 [name] do you want to do this? change the design on a ladys swimsuit while the lady is wearing it?
 yeah
 he does it throughout the entire thing like he does it to there. he does it to the signs.
 here
 he does it there and he does it to the back too.
 how fasting hes going with it? yeah.
 he just killed that guy?
 why wouldnt he do that to one of his buddies? so were waiting for [name]?
 i dont know either but, ought to text her.
 oh i didnt hear you.
 i am good to go if you want to.
 [inaudible] anyways. better to go now than to go later when he needs to be fed again.
 i think well just go ahead and go now.
 want to come to dad?
 how are you doing today? [inaudible] wherever i am. if i live long enough to get old then maybe i will. yeah. just push me around the cart and there you go. thanks for coming by tonight.
 ah thats where the mustache comes from. cowboy hats.
 cowboy hats with a mustache.
 its pretty good. 
 thats really funny.
 pretty well, how are you?
 [inaudible]
 i go up there at 5
 oh yeah columbus.
 i havent really [inaudible] dollars but if i didnt have that oh my goodness.
 [inaudible] she was on the other side of. bye
 yep [inaudible] you.
 yeah. 5 weeks old today
 thank you
 just like, handed her phone and was like do it now. i dont think shes going to do it.
 they were planning on moving out. [name] and [name] were planning on getting their own apartment.
 [inaudible]
 theyre not? why?
 [inaudiable]
 thats just crazy 20 year olds having their own agenda? definitely not making fun of [name] right now. 
 i was talking smack about your bullshit reasons for not asking your friends if they wanted to come bowling with us. thats just weird. youre going to stop here and do your freaking spongebob laugh. is that what you just said?
 can i see that?
 [inaudible]
 yeah that [recording ends]
 yeah girl. hey mom [inaudible] like this. whoop. go ahead and put the first one up.
 yeah, i want to go on [inaudible] next [inaudible]
 i already got [inaudible] the one that [inaudible]. i didnt do it on purpose but i got it.
 how?
 i came in first youre in last.
 he got a one eleven
 one eleven. okay, are we good? are we good to go again? im down for that. now that i finally figured out how to throw again itll be all right. wait whats xxxx again?
 [inaudible] no. right by [inaudible]. no go back on your xxxx. 
 yeah this one.
 i know youre mad i know youre mad. youre killing me boy. you were distracted the whole sermon?
 yeah.
 [singing to baby]. hey give me my hand buddy. shouldve put it in the fridge like this to put what wow [inaudiable]. 
 wow.
 awesome
 are you going to start freezing it?
 hey [name] are we wanting to go to the funeral? we are? all right cool.
 huh? yeah it starts at 1.
 huh?
 yeah were fine we went to church with him.
 yeah i heard your alarm go off and then you shut it off twice. i was like i feel like [name] is just sleeping in today.
 no one noticed you were gone. im just kidding.
 um we were up by about 7 or 8 getting ready
 yeah theyve got the stuff in there. you guys dont have the fish in there yet though do you?
 so is shopping or something going on today?
 um yep. yep most everyone was all smiling and happy at the viewing but at the funeral you could tell they were all torn up. because [name] didnt look too bad. but [name]s wife and everyone else you could definitely see it.
 huh?
 [inaudible] better. yeah.
 if youll grab that [inaudible] there.
 [inaudible]
 yeah i figured or do you want me try to [inaudible] down at his bed. i need to see if i can find that [inaudible]
 its here. need to go pick up some xxxx i need a couple of those.
 what time is practice?
 its an hour and a half away.
 thats thirty minutes away.
 theres no way i could do that.
 he is out of there. [inaudible]
 do you know the difference between me and you?
 i dont have to sneak it watch where youre hitting people there boy because ill get you back. ill flick it.
 do you want to kick me there again? what do you say?
 no he begs for the wedgies. half of the time he asks for one.
 did you see that? did you hear that? did you hear him? he just said give me a wedgie.
 one of these days ill give you a real one.
 barbecue
 [inaudible] that little [inaudible]
 how was [inaudible]
 good. did you have fun? yeah?
 i feel like that guy is probably least likely to return ever like i would not have trusted that guy at all. i just really [inaudible] probably just let him [inaudible]
 hes got two big old longswords god. that was one army against 3. but one army [inaudible]
  i have no idea. 
 i have not seen her in three weeks. [inaudible]
 i have yeah i have no idea. she never responds to my emails. so.
 i figured that she just stopped showing up.
 these are already ones that are already done. 
 oh okay.
 [mumbling while female is talking] [inaudible]
 [name]
 [name]
 [spells name]
 [phone number]
 um yeah. so i needed to um understand why i was sent an email that my pass sent me to corrections when last time they sent me that then um they told me that it was all alright after they checked it.
 yes.
 um full security or last four on it? 
 [social security number] and um what else did you need?
 [number] no [correct social security number].
 [birthdate]
 [inaudible]
 alright.
 separate vehicle. yes okay 607.41, 43. 
 okay
 okay. 21.43.
 alright here you go. alright.
 that will be 60.93 sir. would you like to use your menards card today?
 i will ask you to sign. i will staple your receipt for you. here you go sir. you have a good one.
 [inaudible] here you go sir. 
 that will be 17.55 sir. it will ask you to sign. thank you for shopping at menards today. have a good one. hi how are you?
 881.76 sir thank you for shopping at menards sir. you have a good one.
 oh the rebates? yes they are right up front. they will have the matching numbers. yes they will just get the 12139 and. [end recording]
 are you?
 want some help? thats a big one. ill help you. thank you.
 it will be three hundred and twenty seven dollars. [inaudible]. 
 there you go maam. thank you for shopping at menards. you have a good one.
 how are you?
 i am alright. [inaudible] these are not all no. are they all the same?
 the twelve?
 three. [inaudbile]
 um yes. if there are all the same then i am just then i am just. 
 one two three four five six seven eight.
 yes i can use that one.
 it will be one hundred and thirty eight dollars and [inaudible].
 [inaudible]
 you are welcome. would you like me to?
 ok. [inaudible] [laughter] you have a good one. hi how are you?
 is this it for you today?
 ten cents? i could sell one [inaudible] cents apiece. would you like to apply? it is three for a dollar. ten for a dollar. would you like in a gift free gift card? [inaudible] 
 hello sir. how are you? that will be six- thirty six sir. here you go sir. thank you for shopping at menards. you have a good one.
 hey [name]. 
 could you help me out a minute? a um guest left all these. a guest left all these. well he did not pay for them because he saw [inaudible]. he just left all mad about it. [laughter]
 maam thank you for shopping at menards. you have a good one.
 hello maam. how are you?
 a compressor?
 oh she is bringing it. three seven seven. 
 alright i got everything on the cart for you.
 yes.
 ok.
 and no extended warranty on here maam?
 oh, do you want a extended warranty on this?
 yes.
 twenty- four ninety- eight. but you already have a year warranty already. this is just extending it for two years instead of one. i dont know if you are fine with the one year.
 get the extra year?
 are you said okay are you said when i scan this it should come off when i hit total?
 okay. scan it. you know i just noticed. do you work at some um.
 nursing facility?
 [inaudible]
 this? this is going to come off when i hit total. yeah it is just showing up right now but it is. but, my manager said it should come off once i hit total. sorry this fell in the way.
 oh yeah i think it came off um because we um just went to what is it supposed to is the stapler in there too?
 it is a stapler i am assuming.
 um let me take off four hundred and seventy- eight dollars and fifty- nine cents maam. oh i forgot to say the reason that i asked you is because i have a friend that works at that place. 
 well he works in like [inaudible]
 no hes um like a um server or something like that.
 yes.
 [name]
 yes he is tall. his [inaudible]. yes he is a tall hispanic kid. 
 oh okay got you.
 got you. i will ask you to select the plan now if you would like two percent or six months of financing.
 this is for your warranty maam.
 i have never been inside. it is like carmel isnt there.
 yes he um he goes. he lives around here and then he drives all the way up there.
 oh, i have seen it. but like he took me there once um but i never actually went inside. it is a nice place.
 here you go, maam. you have a good one.
 sir how are you?
 [inaudible] sir did you by any chance hit cancel or anything because they just kicked me out. you might have to swipe it again.
 let me scan the green one with the [inaudible]. there you go sir. thank you for shopping at menards. you have a good one. sir, how are you? that will be one thousand four hundred and fifty seven dollars and fifty- six cents sir. it will ask you to sign again sir for the special order contact. sure and i will staple your receipt for you. here you go sir. you have a nice day. sir how are you?
 go sir. thank you for shopping at menards. you have a good one.
 how are you?
 [inaudible]
 i will ask you to sign. thank you for shopping at menards. you have a good one.
 alright guys.
 i am alright. ninety- nine is your total.
 thank you for shopping at menards. you guys have a good one.
 [inaudible] [spanish] 
 where you work out at home? 
 where you work out?
 um, ill tell you one thing stop because um my car worth stopping by all these places that a lot of people want to go to.
 some. i already said there was going to be learning every day.
 in the morning?
 that place closes at what? eight? it is going to close at eight that day. close.
 i think mine closes at ten.
 i may not. the only reason i am saying that is because we are going to be hungry after that and there is a chipotle near it. that is what i am thinking.
 hell yes. thats why.
 that is why that is why i got those free samples collecting at sams club. but they had um. my mom puffed some free samples for like air fresheners and i dont know. 
 i mean i just said fuck it. 
 it is a free one. how can i argue? i got the um is yours the one thats dry? the freeze one.
 what was it four hundred [inaudible] was it for um [inaudiable]
 you know always get here by like eight. eight three.
 [inaudible]
 this dude.
 um [inaudible]
 when?
 i dont see it.
 no i dont see the sticker. 
 oh
 hey i just. when i am that blind. i think i will actually. i think i will actually have my cell working again by the time we leave.
 hey i just want to have him back because i finally figured out the real [inaudiable].
 the it was the wire. but not so much that it was broken it is more like that thing from the inside it kind of got fucked up so i got to replace it by actually getting it installed. and my dad noticed that one time when he was leaving that that thing was sparking. he said my car couldve gotten on fire. 
 i wouldve been playing some [inaudiable] hella music man if it was one fire. 
 music
 um, [name] at sprint for cheap.
 his friend? his friend probably
 his friend is probably gay too. but hes um apparently really good with um 
 so you know. he is one of those mexicans that either does he either does he either does um hydraulics or he does um what is it called? um 
 speakers and systems in cars. 
 and i am just saying i wanted the bass back after a while.
 not yet i have got to tell her. 
 it is my car.
 we are young. what the fuck dude.
 yep. no problem.
 mhm
 thank you, you too
 i would not mind having like the smallest wedding with like 10 people. i would not mind that. its going to be like no you need to have this and this and this you know
 doesnt mean you have to. and thats the issue its like [name] has a really big family but hes close with all of them. so my side is going to be like 6 people because i dont care at all. like if ive caught two in the last year, yeah ill invite you. but i havent talked to them, im not going to like pay for you to you know
 right like ill give you a thing that im getting married but like hmmm i dont know why most of my family wont even come up to michigan. you know what i mean like thats um thats a 3 hour drive for someone i havent seen. im like, nah they are fine.
 yeah [name] ill send them the raf- wedding registry so they can send me something. but [name] has like this giant family and im like [name] i think we should do the like no picking sides thing so that it doesnt look like my side is 10 people and yours is like 80
 and try to pick yeah
 and [name] and is parents, well be dating a year in may. our parents havent even met
 yeah
 no, like a year and like 2 months
 no. um first of all, you werent here when the whole like he wanted to move here like before you came. so weve been dating for like a month and he wanted to move here he was like thinking about that. [inaudible] like dont even give me that. dont 
 im aware because im not that kind of person
 yeah but i have to give him the fact that he is 26. like you have to give him that
 he is yeah he is not doing it to fuck around. if he was 20, i would be like bro, like stay, stop stop stop we are not doing this right now. but hes 26 so im like it makes me feel a little bit better. but at the end of the day, you and i are a lot alike in that aspect where were just like alright you need to [inaudible] i cant tell how many panic texts ive had about like, thinking about the fact im like 20 and moving. god thats scary
 thats true
 thats true, thats true 
 i know, i know, i know. but it still scares me you know what i mean. but im not me and like- i dont do anything like you know get my toes in the water like that is just kind of fall for it and just figure it out later
 yeah oh yeah im everything about things. [inaudible] its all happening
 i was- im not going to sink so ill just figure out how to swim later like when im drowning ill figure how to swim
 yeah im not going to learn how to swim before
 oh yeah no 
 yeah thats me yeah. i got you
 hey [name]
 how are you?
 um  [inaudible] package i guess [inaudible] delivered but he [inaudible] he said that you and i got the proof of delivery from fedex and everything. and it said that it was delivered, it said it was signed for [inaudible] but if he comes back and asks for it. you know it says delivered
 yeah its probably still one the website
 yeah i printed it out and gave it to him and everything. he has all the paperwork and everything
 but if he says [inaudible] thats as far as i got so its in his hands now if he contacts [inaudible]
 hm?
 what did you say?
 [inaudible] no you are fine. are the bags under my eyes like super terrible? i havent looked at them. 
 if you have any other questions, feel free to call [name] and we will come out and help you
 uh huh, yeah. huh. oh lord im so glad that [inaudible] i am so hungry.
 you cant eat in the coffee center [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 no, if you are in a bad mood 
 hell be irritated that you did not so
 yeah, if it is [inaudible] we are not able in here like go find another room. yeah so. 
 you must be picking and choosing you got like.. alright i am going to need time back to back and not being fucking asshole. 
 what is it?
 really?
 eww thats annoying
 oh thats good
 hey
 how can i help you
 ok no problem. [inaudible]
 oh heres that 
 okay
 okay
 hey great
 okay, awesome. will do.
 okay
 no problem
 okay
 no problem
 which one?
 you havent met her yet?
 thats funny. yeah shes really nice
 yup
 my boyfriend is so bad like especially when hes near his friends. hes like awkward and annoying [inaudible] basically everybody is weird. well but it would be better for you like oh [inaudible] you could have like, set yourself up so well for that one. you know what i mean
 will you come help me?
 thank you
 hi, [name]. this is [name], and i was in i think saturday and i filled out an online application. you were actually assisting me because i had another person that needed to fill out an application too and you guys said that you could like merge the two of them um and i was just wondering if we can go ahead and merge those two applications   yes its for- im sorry. yeah we both applied, yup yes [subject name and spelling].. [other name and spelling].. yep. ok great, thank you so much. bye bye.
 um its in our j drive
 or g. yep, j drive. but usually on this one its already pulled up so its just down at the bottom right here, its one of our several excel spreadsheets 
 yeah
 yes
 no we change the date during the day, right here.
 yeah we print it at the um once it goes out at the 10
 so this, these are out going so this will be printed at 10 and 2 and then the incoming gets printed at 1030, 230. so you have two different sheets for when they come in and
 yep. so since its not 2 anymore this will be up on 10 tomorrow. and it will be changed tomorrow on itself because [name] has the algorithm to go to today
 ugh yes. luckily this is my last thing. what do you have?
 im alright thank you
 no, maam.
 thank you
 thats fucked up
 that is really weird, that your mind goes there
 i get someone to look at the ground and nothing you know like something normal
 that actually happened
 whats that off of?
 is that from american psycho or no?
 look it up [inaudible]
 i saw it one time and i was like what. i dont even understand. i tried- i tried reading a stephen king book one time and it was just way too complex.
 god, what?
 oh yeah, she did
 she said god
 and then i had a party at my house so that was cool. that was fun. yeah my dress was only like 80 bucks, thats why i got it. [inaudible] but like you know it was simple [inaudible] why cant 80 bucks [inaudible] spent like 700 dollars on their dress i dont trust that shit like i [inaudible] i was going to take my- i used to have a [inaudible] i was going to take that to prom with me, it was like a nice car you know what i mean but it was like a piece of shit oh man me and my date we were like an hour away from my house and my mom was like [inaudible]
 that made sense i just find [inaudible]
 yeah i did it like um before i was adding and subtracting and thought, this is a lot of work i probably missed something, i was getting annoyed.
 yeah i want to take [inaudible] im transferring this- after this semester so i like need a certain gpa that i may or may not have right now
 um [school name] and its like a 2.5 gpa for like- i was really- i was like not with it my freshman year. i was like doing what you shouldnt do
 and i was like well and then i decided like december of this year like super excited like i want to transfer and i didnt have the gpa i needed so im a little nervous about transferring 
 i know and everybody was like warning me and i like im very like gotta figure out for myself im not the best at taking life
 i got it up like im not [inaudible] 1.59 to a 2.16 the next semester so i did grade replacement and everything so
 yeah it does
 what do you mean?
 oh really
 thats true its not like its not anything like its not like michigan or michigan state so im assuming they should but ill have to look into that 
 thats still i mean going from a to c so
 bye!
 see you tomorrow
 okay
 hello, yes, no, no, no, im watching netflix. im sorry, yeah um yeah, yeah, i just dont talk to them. no. like- i dont know. whenever i wake. yup. yeah. hmm nope, nothing at all. i got your guys card in the mail today. yeah, thanks. um no. nope. he didnt. yeah i forgot about it too because grandma told me last night and then i forgot until she asked me if i saw them today. i was like oh no i forgot about that. so yeah um [end of recording]
 yeah i was [inaudible] [name] please help me understand what was going on. shes like oh my gosh [inaudible]
 you were doing homework
 so that was at your house, [inaudible]
 so
 [inaudible], do i need to come down? because im in the middle of a story
 ugh, okay. okay, continue
 i guess i should go help her, hmm ill just let her come up and then go down
 mhhm
 hmm
 and how far of a drop is it out the window?
 did it not hurt?
 oh shit, probably got milk on the damn counter. its fine, its fine. the counter is okay.
 um okay this is exactly what happened. our brother was like what is this? and so shes like its [name] therapy appointment. and hes like why are they all on the 420 at 4
 did you get the ideal-self question right?
 i want to know my fucking grade
 okay that makes sense, but you never know. okay
 what is the stage from puberty to adulthood in which
 reaction formation?
 isnt this one um genital. yeah, right
 one of the breast and the brightest
 its okay we have like a lot of time left. 
 wouldnt that be incongruence?
 i dont even know what that is
 god i got a 42 on my math test
 caring towards other people is known as blank according to the five factor theory of personality. right i did not take any notes on that. good, good perfect
 the 5 factor theory
 umm the tendency to be cooperative and caring toward other people
 extraversion, right. im taking this test tomorrow, means that ill have to go to my 9am since i obviously dont know anything. i dont know this one.
 once again, i dont know that one, im fucked
 shoes. i texted him, i said
 i- thats what i thought but they scheduled me for an hour and a half timeslot
 i dont know
 4
 well mine i dont think ill have that much to delete because its not like i sat here and talked to myself all weekend so
 im not listening to it. fuck no. nope we are not playing that game
 goodnight, [name]
 i dont know how to do this i had to do this last semester but i dont remember how i did it. 
 i am not doing this because you are recording me, and the plural of deer is deer
 really?
 then why were you asking again
 no, you gave me the answer from google and google apparently knows everything
 google answers everything
 yeah. 8.6? times 100 [inaudible] yeah, i guess it is. what is your problem you dont want to get up that early and go 
 no to you dont want to go or what
 yeah. oh my gosh. oh dang it, her sorority is probably gone. yep it is. i wish you guys would have been here so i could have shown you [name]s girlfriend, [name] sorority from all the parties down at iu yesterday. it was so funny. 
 wait, you have to get up at 9
 oh i thought you said 10. i was like shes literally rolling out of bed, getting on a bus and going hmm okay question 13, how many questions are there on this shit? ugh, theres 13- 19 questions. its hot in here. oh my gosh, i was watching this tv show today and there was these newlyweds and they were trying to get a house together. because she just moved in with him after they got married into like his apartment. and shes like i feel like we need a home that is our own because every time i say im hot hell be like no, i think it feels comfortable and i dont want to be uncomfortable in my own home. she goes oh ok i guess ill just be uncomfortable in our home
 why are you barking, why are you doing that? [inaudible] soap all over me. thank you, here you are. [inaudible]
 you are supposed to snuggle like you [inaudible]
 is there extra credit or anything?
 can you bring it up?
 i have a paper that is due.. i have two papers that are due for the english class and im still figuring out the second one. he has not been to class three times the past like two weeks, i have no idea what to [inaudible] im like alright
 i had a twenty over twenty on my group presentation and then in recitation [inaudible] eighteen out of twenty.
 [inaudible] last night?
 i was like really considering not doing it because it was like 11 o clock at night and i left my computer at my moms house at like 7 and she lives like 30 minutes away from me so it was like [inaudible] but i wasnt going to [inaudible] i was just reading the questions usually i do it once, usually i get a nine out of ten or a ten out of ten so im like fuck it dont worry about it. i got a 7.75 this time [inaudible] because the questions dont change so i could probably do deductive reasoning and figure out which ones are they right ones. 
 did you say coffee cake? thats my favorite 
 just now?
 no, like this week?
 hey
 i did
 now im stuck in the middle of an intersection in traffic but thats fine. yeah, im going to go home and work on another paper that is due next thursday, i think.
 thats about it. oh no, i got all of my final reviews-like all the reviews for the finals-and like three of my classes i have a final- i have a test on tuesday and the final on thursday. like i have to study for two separate tests for both of the classes
 yeah, it shouldnt be too hard, i dont think. my psychology class, my last test i dont even have to take because they drop the lowest score and i have done fine in all my other tests so i dont have take that and i still get like a 98%  i believe. 
 psychology
 no like
 they drop the lowest scores on all of your tests like they take 6 all year and they drop the lowest of the 6 and the final is included in that. and i have done well on the other 4- the other 4 that i have taken
 yeah i read it today and im still going to take it because i would like to get a higher grade. i have not got a perfect on any of my tests so i can get a perfect on one of my tests. i have an appointment with somebody on the writing center tomorrow morning to go over the paper that i just finished today.
 first she just kinds of reads it and points out where it needs help like yeah- in their opinion
 no i dont but um we havent been given much time to work on these other two so i am not able to go over them as much as i want to so if somebody else is wanting to go over them why not.
 i dont know
 yeah. its hard because like in english class, your english teachers are not these published authors they dont have like pieces of literature that they have dedicated parts of their life to but when you go to college these people are professional writers
 hey [name]
 are you going to leave it out? why are you not going to leave it out for [name]?
 i didnt know if you were leaving it out for [name] get away from there you guy
 telling him to get away from there
 did you mean to tell me that they still have not shipped them all out
 ill just put this in the truck
 henry! no! im becoming one of those really weird people that take my backpack with me everywhere i go. can you let me? of course not. 
 why?
 but
 oh i hope so those are pretty good
 alright. [inaudible] are you paying this or do you need me to?
 they added on to that house. did you see that?
 weird. 
 could drive by it
 its 6 o clock, we dont eat dinner until 11 o clock
 what is the website?
 the dove one?
 i think its um
 you dont come out smelling like it though like you did with the other soap the irish spring you will turn up and smell like a 
 i just dont want to hear that this [inaudible] i dont know i forgot how many [inaudible] i have put on. i see your phone
 i said [inaudible]
 hmm probably
 i dont have anywhere to put it
 you should be [inaudible]. see who comes running
 because i have so much fruit in there
 i can put whatever i want in there
 what?
 i dont know [name] i never saw it. 
 i dont think so, i never got it
 maybe i didnt [inaudible] under the truck
 you might want to bring that together. 
 oh hey dear. doctor how are you doing?
 yeah i figured
 no i dont want to [inaudible] them before they can
 i am sometimes that awesome. i dont know how much bacon you want, right?
 one, two, three, four, five. well i think my pan is too small [inaudible]
 that is going to not be warm
 [inaudible] went to school. oh my god, babe that hurts. you want a piece of toast?
 you smell bad
 [inaudible]
 i dont get why you are not 850
 [inaudible] backpack
  [inaudible] counting this week
 i have to spend all night, [inaudible] studying
 i dont have enough time, like it takes two hours to fold through my own clothes.
 [inaudible] do it
 [inaudible]
 i am sorry i have to [inaudible]
 what? 
 not everybody is going to school for what im going to school for. there is only like ten of us in this whole grade. i have to be- i have to apply, its not like oh, i get to graduate with a degree. if i dont do well they dont have to accept me. if i get a b, im not going to be accepted. okay?
 i actually have to apply
 we might have. im applying myself dear. what? i am just not as talented as everybody else, i guess i cant do it all.
 i love her. why you love her. i love her, she is so cute!
 its the mango chili chicken. none of the lighter choices are on the lunch menu
 yeah
 what are you thinking?
 never
 well the prices dont vary that drastically but when they vary like we can get a 30 dollar save or 10 dollar gas [inaudible]
 no
 are you ready to order?
 hmm i know what im getting
 spicy pastille chili chicken
 i was um
 im going to get spicy chicken or chili chicken 
 yes
 what is that? skillet queso.
 skillet? what is this because i want that. the asparagus underneath that
 we can drink
 what does that mean?
 yeah but what do you mean with
 no im saying what do you mean that you are going to cinco de mayo
 oh, i think she got the thing with asparagus
 yeah 
 are you saying that? you dont mean this and that. what are you doing? [] tripped me up and i thought i was getting something heavy, and its like and airy. 
 this
 well thats why we need two bathrooms
 um im trying to get you to
 [inaudible] let me know.
 henry? henry?! baby. where are you guys stayed at?
 i like converse, those would be cute. hmm are those birkenstock shoes? oh my god they are like 90 dollars. one of those were [inaudible], did you know [inaudible]? what do you want to do babe? 
 where is the motorcycle supposed to park though? 
 three hours, two dollars. how am i supposed to reach that?
 i cant pull any closer, [name]
 is a visitor parking.
 compact car parking. am i a compact car? ill park right there. or ill just park down here. no sense in us trying to fit that right there when i can park right here. 
 yes, please
 [inaudible]
 i know that like our social work school [inaudible] the best one, i think, is like not even here so..
 like theres a better one somewhere else. 
 i think our psychiatry program is good though
 well because this girl had a meeting and they told her social work too but she would have to transfer for social work because i think it is like
 yeah because like the school here is okay but there is a different school [inaudible] social work
 [inaudible]
 yes
 i want to counsel maybe kids and teenagers
 yeah
 yeah. counseling, they pay [inaudible] money
 yeah and if im a therapist i could like [inaudible] some places
 i have thought about this
 yeah
 um well, i was going to- i have a meeting with [name]- friday. so that they can like tell me more about psychology.
 and the after i meet with them, i have like a meeting with social work- the school of social work- so they can tell me more
 okay so i think that both of them. my psyd [inaudible]
 i think that was for like one of my categories, too
 no it is pointless because [inaudible] so i wont have the title [inaudible] ill go through the options. [inaudible] what? 
 [inaudible] huh? why? i have been listening to what you said. [inaudible] i have been finding pictures and i dont know what im going to see
 this social work [inaudible] is like an hour and 40 minutes. each one of them. no, two hours and 40 minutes
 oh but it is only offered once a week so it makes sense
 this social work course- class that im trying to take is killing me. i cant fit it in anywhere. 
 why cant you have a b?
 ok, [name]. question 3
 are you talking to me?
 he has a way to mess up, and im not even [inaudible]
 [inaudible] hear right so i was like listening trying to make sure i heard what i was hearing
 and you got to turn your ear to the guest like
 they caught- i was like that better not be him. like no dont try to- no, i know what you are doing
 my nephew was talking so much today so 
 he probably was. because he got to yelling
 what are you yelling at? he was yelling some more. she was like see, i got an attitude because you cant see me. speak of the devil. whats up? hello? oh im not coming home this weekend because mom got on her feeling, i said [inaudible]
 so me and my boyfriend broke up [inaudible] you are trying to make sure she dont move on. [inaudible] facetime. i said you should transfer to my school, change your major to my major and live with me. why did i do that? girl. girl
 i was like why did you want to live with him if you dont even like him [inaudible] so mom said,  coming to get you was not a problem i told your dad [inaudible] but if thats the way you want this so be it. dont forget to tell your dad. i said
 she got softy as hell because i was trying to make life easy for her. okay can we have a [inaudible]
 oh well. im just saying because [name] wants to watch hunger games. you want to watch hunger games. so somebody aint going to be able to see it. [inaudible] 
 unless we are all at the same place 
 well i  look just like mom
 thank you bitch. [inaudible] shut up. stop it. stop it. shut up he was looking like he didnt do nothing. [inaudible] whats wrong with you. you stuffed to capacity? [inaudible] because you stuff yourself like you always do. 
 you got those sources or no?
 are your sources in mla format or no? [name] at iu. at iu. dot e-d-u. e-d-u. 
 you got those sources, right? okay
 thats fine. okay this is my- huh? oh hold one. its just a problem causing [inaudible] speech
 i am giving a girl counseling right now. 
 so i can get [inaudible]
 you know what, though? i might just have you [inaudible] i dont know what time to.
 no, thats not you. 
 my mom said hello.
 she said hi.
 she said hi.
 i cannot hear, whats wrong with your phone. it does not work.
 [name] and i going to get her baby momma. oh about 8. so [inaudible] i had to divorce here. yeah because [inaudible] i had two wives. no you dont. just like your sister. why are you [inaudible] mess it up. [inaudible] mistress. i said its too much for me i dont have time.
 [inaudible] lowercase k. he is going to be like oh my gosh [inaudible]
 i have to spit in a thing- not spit. i have to drool in this tube.
 i cant believe 
 ready? its about to go. oh i ripped the bottle open. i really [inaudible] im going to walk through the rain. i dont know its probably a breathing. so [inaudible]
 i told you i could get you. you want a [name of pill]? it will make you feel better. its a- it like relieves your pain and it like boosts your immune system. its just another [inaudible] like literally its just. it just boosts your immune system. like when i have allergies they give it to me so that- they give me a shot and then i [inaudible] the prescription. 
 i think so, it might be. you take it when you eat. believe me i was talking to a 20-dollar gem today. for like two months. 
 driving the [inaudible] costume. just fucking cough. oh my god. you sound like you- fucking get over here 
 [inaudible]
 yeah
 yeah because we can listen to it before we give it to them 
 because im pretty sure, you realize like they probably realize they are college students so.
 im about to call my dad and yell at him 
 not until my mom gets off work, she probably will get here at like 7. wait what? since when was this and why nobody come tell me
 we are fine
 [inaudible] the whole time [inaudible]
 you know, he was like yes he is. [inaudible] and i was like well, i think thats jacob. 
 or who was it.  it was fucking jacob. he was like
 [inaudible] oh i was going to call you back. bye bye, see you
 [inaudible] stress me out when 
 [inaudible] i dont want to get churchs chicken. like yeah i dont even want, i dont want chicken.
 no, i dont want chicken
 i just dont want churchs chicken right now
 yeah. i just dont. every time he comes here 
 do you guys mind if i eat some chicken nuggets and i want mash potatoes too
 so like i cant stop coughing
 say like [inaudible] i can either a encourage him to talk to you or b kill his dreams. tell me what you want me to do. but i feel like if she didnt trust him then its got to be hard for him to get like her trust back. because he did it so many times behind her back, which was stupid of him.
 heres the thing. isnt that that she didnt trust him because she was being a crazy girlfriend; she had a reason not to trust him.
 isnt she driving
 oh [inaudible] texting and driving is not the answer 
 come on now.  how many guys are going through the same situation at the same exact time. i feel like it is him
 yeah,  a couple times
 that is so- that is so crazy [inaudible] like we should have. like even when im trying to sleep i just cough. 
 no
 [name] says she has cough medicine, though. i should try. so like in class today i was trying not to cough but it got the point where like tears starting rolling down
 like i went to bathroom and there was this girl in there im pretty sure she thought i had like  fucking pneumonia. how bad i was coughing with looked like a stalker, just sitting there
 what?
 wow
 wait who driving?
 ma, am i really driving? ma. who is driving, ma? 
 i can it dont matter to me. 
 man you dont know what i [inaudible] i told you mom
 i said oh. he was like
 a raccoon
 there is a raccoon in there
 he scared the jibbers out of me [inaudible] why you looking at me like that?
 mom, i could have drove
 why you look your titi like that? why you always do this to me when we see each other face to face?
 why?
 do you need me to drive?
 [inaudible] i thought that was, like, [name]
 look whos [inaudible] again
 i dont know how it wants it. because it is how i simplified my answer. are you kidding me? tens thousands, what the heck. i typed that the very first time. oh my gosh. 
 wait did i see what time is it [inaudible] i think it was [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 might be 8 oclock
 okay i
 that is one of the things i needed
 kind of. i just want to like start on it today, because i did a lot of work [inaudible] and he is like yeah no, he is like that is too general
 why did they [] into the wrong thing. like i hit email instead of [inaudible] 
 i was like where is that [inaudible] button
 is someone missing?
 oh, i dont got time for that today. [inaudible] then i do setup i have to do research
 why did you give me so many?
 or anything?
 oh hell, is this supposed to be you? [name]
 why?
 i have like a papercut underneath my thumbnail
 i dont know it just happened and it hurts
 no it has been there for like a day
 a whole day
 [full name]s name is [name]
 [name] played a 111-point word against me yesterday
 111! i was like oh nice. our score is 54 to 175
 you took home [oinaudible]
 you werent thinking it through. 
 thats fine
 i could have handed them to you
 oh there were some in here
 so instead of using the 2.5 [inaudible] you should use the z-score associated with 95% confidence
 yes
 because to find the t-value you have to know what the sample size is and for this you are trying to find out what sample size you should use,
 i just want to check the grade first
 yes. 
 am i in the lines?
 in the lines?
 i just backed up right from there.
 i brought my lunch!
 well i can use it for later. i had to pay for our groceries last night because [family] did not have moneyit was embarrassing. we got to the line, and her card got declined. i have a package.
 what do you think it is?
 me neither!
 i have to carry this around today.
 when are you going today?
 [inaudible]
 well i havent been to her house in forever.
 you dont know that
 2p.m.
 i got stuff to do friday, anywaysim watching [name]. im going to go take him to see a captain america movie. alright, i got to go tanning before someone else gets in thereits free!
 dont hit me.
 i have a package here, and i need to go tanning.
 [whisper] hey, i have to carry this around and record it.
 and its like a canvas bag, and it says always and forever on it. like how, um, [name], i mean, [name] and [name], but it was like $20 for shipping and i dont want to pay that. so mom gave the idea of just getting like a gift bag and decorating it and having it say always and forever. but i have to find a good, find a way to do that to make it look good, so if you come up with any ideasif you get bored at workwell alrightyill, uh, ill talk to you later. okay. bye.
 i mean ive seen it, and kind of [inaudible]but i dont know how much it would be worth, like [inaudible]
 oh, yeah
 oh well if you mad [inaudible]
 i did it yesterday, but i hate when people touch peoples [inaudible]i mean if im [inaudible], yeah whatever, but [inaudible]i mean not that i get mad, but when people are really pregnant and stop what i am doing [inaudible]you know?
 remind me what i was doing [inaudible]
 [inaudible]and after, how muchi thought you had a pipe, i said nope, he never got back to me. okay, ill call down there and pick him up in like an hour.
 okay.
 yeah.
 yeah. cant complement everybody, sosorry.
 because i got that one
 the long one or the short one?
 no, i know, but im like thinking its october, and that the short one might be a little chilly.
 then the long one, the long one is like, stringy
 i dont, i dont
 okay, because its like you arent coming near me at all.
 her like, her long dresses are like long and some are longer.
 okay, ill wear the short one; its orange and then it has a bow in the back, and then im going to wear like a teal [inaudible]
 and my boyfriend is here.
 my boyfriend likes to drink crown royal [inaudible], so i make him buy it because [inaudible]
 best friends for [inaudible]
 best friends forever and ever.
 break me off a piece of that
 stop trying to talk her intoshes going!
 shes fine.
 we know
 um, yeah. remember we are the ones that walked from the bus [inaudible].
 was anyone drunk? yes 	
 [name]!
 it was really cold.
 basically any event that i go to, im drunk.
 like if other people can tell, its different, but like
 yeah. but i would do that before i told anyone.
 oh everyone knows when im drunk. like right nowim not drunk now. im tipsy, but, im not drunk. [laugh]
 no im burnt!
 no, really. ive been going tanning. [laughing].
 oh, wow. i get red really fast.
 um, well, when he [inaudible]
 yes, i love you too.
 [state] is playing?
 i did, okay, [inaudible]
 im going to tell them right now.
 its over.
 you can finally make those [inaudible]
 hey, you two. what are you doing?...no.
 hold on, [name].
 no. hold on.
 come here baby. [name]. come here babe.
 dont lickohyou okay?
 yes, its your turn. wheres [name2]? hold on. watch out. get back. its your brothers turn. come on. one.
 hang on, im really close to that car.
 hush.
 come on, bud.
 god. it reaks in here. you stink so bad.
 god, [name], you should have changed. [inaudible]
 in my closet. no outside.
 ow! god!...[noise]go outside.
 come here. hey, come here.
 go! go!
 i opened the door.
 daddy! you dont have your glasses
 shitfuck
 i just forgot to change the [inaudible].
 i just realized i have no snacks for today.
 like i didnt get any.
 its okay.
 no.
 i had snacks on the listi justit was like 4
 [laughing] thats why rumor has it because people always go like this. theyre like[laughing]have you ever witnessed that phenomenon? ah man, you ask people like what there is, and they like point very far in one direction. and theyre like oh yeah, over at the such and such they have really great burgers. im like[laughing]okay that doesnt help me
 huh?
 yeah, apparently [building name] has a [fast food] in it, and all this other stuff, but i dont know where that is because they just keep going[laughing]
 and i walk in that direction, and im like theres the bathroom and okay the bookstore. ive never found the burger place.
 [laughing] um, yeah. [laughing]
 yeah? thats awesomethats pretty exciting.
 oh, ill be fineim just over it.
 um, the, the personality thing we filled out for extra credit, has that already been added in? orokay
 okay.
 how?
 it can do that?
 these fish are getting so big
 oh, okay.
 i think all of my boots are right here.
 i love [name]
 shes good. she, um, called her mom right before i called, i mean she, her mom called her right before i called her. and she literally sent the call to voice mail, and it started ringing again and it was me. and, so she picked up, and i was like i just wanted you to know that youre my body person. and she was like, what? i was like, if i had to burry a body i would call you for help and she was like, i needed that! [laughing] i was like, oh, good. [laughing].
 yeah.
 because i know she wouldntshe wouldnt ask what happened, she wouldnt, you know, be like, we cant do this, like, i, i cant be a part of this. like she would just silently, without judgment, help me burry the damn body, and then we would talk about it later.
 shes so great.
 i feel bad for these researcherstheyre not gonna get much on me. i never noticed it before, but i really dont talk that much throughout the day. i have no one to talk to!...so you know, ill talk maybe an average of a minute per class. thats like 7 minutes. for 9 hours, you know. and thats it.
 yeahand she said that wasnt a deal breaker because i mean, i told her, about that. i was like, well, you know, tomorrow i have classes all day longdo you go to lunch the same time every day?
 when?
 ill be ready for youand ill have your sandwich ready. do you know where there is a [name of bank]?
 oh, good. and its not too far?
 that is a really strong fish smell
 does it work yet?
 do you want it cut?
 oh, why are you sorry? you didnt have to
 hmm?
 [laughing]
 did you take both of them?
 the alj, did you take both?
 i want to take one, too.
 yeah.
 so worried about you.
 why cant you sleep?
 is there a lot on your mind?
 yeah
 thanks.
 okay.
 all my student loans and all of my money goes to him
 so, um,.
 yeah, hes my guy
 [laughing]
 let me see if i have change[chuckle]i know we have like 10 bucks in your car
 do you have any change? i got
 this coin?
 here you go. [laugh]
 [inaudible]
 yeah, that will work. [laugh]thank you.
 [laughing]
 yeah.
 no, why would i tell people?...what part of the bank experience was worth making into a story?
 it is, but that is my, um, money is my shame trigger
 yeah, like, um, whenever people reprimand me for money, i feel really ashamedand
 so things that, like, hurt me really deep, i dont share with anybody but you
 so that story is not getting out[laugh]
 whats your shame trigger?
 i dont knowi dont think you usually share it with me when you are ashamed
 well have to get more stew beef.
 yeah
 im wondering how it would work
 huh?
 mhmmyeah, but, um, a quarter more liquid than it called for.
 see, thats what im wonderingim wondering how more liquid would affect it.
 i know it would take longer to heat up, so the celery might be crunchymaybe the onions.
 yeahlove you.
 [laugh]can i read this to you?
 you want to hear something funny? today i was at work, talking to a girl, and we were just chatting, and i told her i re-recently written some short stories, and she goes, oh my god, youre a writer? i could almost hear her panties hit the floornever thought that would be a turn on. [laughing]oh my god[laughing]i could just see that. oh my god youre a writer?
 its super funny. because glass just broke just because she was singing, so he, even though he feels it one way, he interprets another.
 so he, like, starts laughing and thinks its really funny.
 alright, there are five important emotions for survival. and its anger, guilt, shame, happiness, disgust. umokay, dual attitudes is when you have conflicting, or dis-similar ideas about the same thing, so one of the things that she came up with was pregnancy. you know. you get pregnant, your s-. you know whether its planned or unplanned, you know, it really dictates which emotion youll feel first, but more than likely you will have dual attitudes about it. where youre like, oh this is so great, i always wanted to have kids! how are going to afford this? you know, where are going to move? like, how is this going to work? im so scared im going to break it somehow, like you know, yay kids! boo kids! [laughing]um, and then attitude formation comes from experiences. which is pretty self-explanatoryattitude measurement is implicit and explicit. um, explicit is when people just tell you it; implicit is more of a gut reaction. um, lapier wickerlapier and wicker, um, came up with a study that was kind of a crisis of confidence for the sociological, i mean not the sociological, social psychology thing where they discover thatthere is really poor relationship between attitudes and behaviorsum, attitude depict intentions which depict behaviors.
 so, you know,  you could thinkyou know, oh yeah, coke is so bad for you, but then you drink it all the time. you know, you have a certain attitude about coke, but it doesnt have a direct link to behavior; it has a direct link to intentions. you know, in your mind, you could be like, oh this is really bad for meum, my intention is to only have one a day.
 and then, your behavior is you have it every day. so, your attitude could be its terrible, but you still have it. um, explicit self-report is like a survey where you talk about, you know, whatever they want you to talk about, about yourself. and then an i-a-t is a implicit attitude test, um, i think its different words, but thats basically what it is. um, she had us do one in class, and its where she had pictures and words all throughout a column, and one column was you put bugs and negative words; in this column, like, a check next to it in this column. and then on the other side, it was flower and positive words, and you put a check next to it in that column. and so you ran down and did it really fast. and then you had to flip the paper over and it had flowers and negative words, and then bugs and positive words. and that one you do really slowly because its harder to be like, oh, okayuhi dont know, i dont know. because it didnt really make sense in our brain that flowers would be associated with negative words
 and, so, they use it on, when theyre trying to measure implicit association you have in your headdoes that make sense?
 last page, lovealright theyre two steps of goal setting. goal setting and pursuing the goal. [laugh]. goal shielding is when you focus on only one goal, and you tune out all the other onesso
 i gave you the wrong word
 well, if i write iti love you
 [singing] runaway frank, youre gonna die, youre gonna fry, you guilty son-of-a-bitch. [laughing]
 what time is your ifa?
 well if he doesnt show up do you want to help me come up with some workouts for
 i want to do like a program. i think i told you about doing a football program for
 oh well in our 373 class, we have to come up with like a whole season plan, like even like in season, post-season, pre-season, stuff like that. uh, but we just have to like, well tuesday we are all getting together so we are just going to come up with like random exercises that we can do, and then just mesh them.
 yeah.
 yeah. so i dont know, i mean, like this is so awesome how my school works. they, uh, like all the athletes, like before lunch time, they all have allotted time to actually lift and do their work out.
 like during school.
 and then like after lunch they go to all of their classes. um, and then for like an hour and a half [inaudible] practice, they dont have to worry about their [inaudible] which i thought was really awesome and the football coaches, like, are there, like
 yeah.
 yeah.
 yeah.
 i mean its, i mean different times and since their school is so big. but, um, each time slot is like an hour and a half.
 i thought it was cool too.
 that one guy you knew came, like within this hour, this past hour right? like between two and now?
 okay.
 three.
 okay, thanks. i forgot to mark him down.
 breakfast is done. im so glad you stayed.
 [laughing]
 that was a laugh.
 yeah. i actually bought some strawberries and they are kind of going bad, but if you mix them with stuff
 [laughing]
 i mean they are on the verge of being bad.
 yeah thats our beer fridge. we dont have any beer though so we put our food in there.
 theres a plate for you.
 you can turn it off. sorry.
 thats a pancake plate.
 no thats fine.
 [inaudible]
 alright you ready? ill take my little device here.
 im not acting. this is real life.
 [laughing] oh my god.
 its not from you.
 lifting. probably from incorrect form.
 [laughing] was that real?
 you each get two.
 i know!
 so weird. you like?
 theyre not your favorite? is that what you are saying?
 try some almond butter. you can try a little bit.
 sorry.
 yep. its what we do. it might be an acquired taste so if you dont like it im sorry.
 why are you laughing?
 [laughing] 
 [laughing]
 have to spit again?
 [laughing]
 yeah.
 yeah.
 i feel like it was either a major come over or sometimes it was like the middle part for guys.
 yeah.
 i like a beard. like whatever, any type of facial hair.
 i know its so disgusting, like freaking some pub hairs or something.
 like nobody wants to kiss that.
 so my fingers are starting to maybe, like callous, or whatever.
 and i havent like, practiced since, like, we practiced that one night.
 which is really weird.
 yeah. i dont know if its like really callousing, but that past couple days theyve been like really dry right there.
 ugh, gosh.
 [laughing] yeah. [inaudible]socially awkward.
 oh i didnt lock it. sorry.
 fun stuff.
 oh theyre racing! whos going to win?
 [laughing]. i like this song.
 i dont know. you turned it last night when it was on.
 yes they do.
 [inaudible]
 some seasoning?
 no. its fine.
 what?
 yes it is. so now we can make our little boat thing.
 maybe, uh
 yeah a little bit.
 [laughing]
 oh my goodness.
 yes. [inaudible] keystone. and then
 maybe its not down this side street. maybe its down the next side street.
 and so thats why i feel like i can do it.
 well, like, this one has base, so, like, when i have it pulled up like this, you, like, see, like deeper purple. and its so cool.
 cooly, cool.
 so, we dont have to, like, re-sign our lease or anything until june, right? or do we have to do it
 okayand then at that time we will tell them, like, were going to be here another year, or
 we need to do it month by month
 i think
 yeah, lets use that.
 okay.
 so do you have a class or things to do today?
 okay.
 okay.
 yeah.
 yeah.
 yay!
 im so ready for it to be nice and warm. i just love warm weather.
 [inaudible] makes me happy.
 yeah? you dont like it super-hot, but
 see i like, but im from [state], well not originally, but, like, i stayed in [state 2] for the summers
 and so basically, like me getting used to that
 and so now im like, ugh i dont mind. i dont care if its really hot, i just dont want it to be really cold. and i dont mind cold when im ready for it, and like its supposed to be cold, but i mind cold when its supposed to be warm.
 yeah. but i think everybody is. [laugh]because this is like the worst winter ever
 record
 yeah, i know. it was awesome! i was like, i love this! i could live in indiana all the time!
 [laughing]right.
 yeah.
 nice.
 ah! [inaudible]
 [laughing]
 over and over againbut it is that refresher of okay, right, like i dont want to cheat on you anymore, like, i am taken for you. and for whatever that means, um, but its time to like look ahead and not get distracted, and not look for distractions, um, because i trust you all. and, so i guess im not excited
 but that upside you know
 [sigh]really seeing the body as a temple, like really, the way i look in the mirror i used to think, oh this girl looks good blah blah blah, but now its like none of this is holy. this is a temple. um, and i dont want to defile it anymore
 really?
 mmhmm.
 mmhmm.
 [laughing] do it! let it out.
 [laughing]oh no.
 those air pockets
 [laughing]
 yeah.
 yeah
 mmhmm.
 yeah
 im sorry. its hard for me because ive, like, accepted it and so then i forget about
 yes.
 yes, i agree. [laughing]
 but i feel like he does warn his children, like i really do, because even moses knew before he was going to die, god told him. and craig and paul. its just our timing, like we dont know
 but its something that i cried a lot for in the beginning, and its actually for my dad and just seeing my dad go through that, you know, and, um, just missing out on things too, you know
 yeah. its something that i had to grieve a lot. and i think thats why i look for it so much because i know that its not going to be something that im going to have, um, and god keeps telling me
 yeah. thats true, too. um, but, um, he keeps showing me like marriage with me is better than, like
 i know
 yeah, i agree. its, thats like his proposal, like, the other night was so, like, prevalent
 just, just like, okay it talks about were going to be the bride, and get to see the groom, you know. and so i feel like when i was thinking about it in swaziland, he was just like, i want you to be prepared for our wedding day, you know and have the beautiful dress and all of these things, um, i dont want you to show up in your pajamas. so, basically preparation. you need to prepare for it the way you would a regular wedding. um, but i dont feel like he had proposed yet, you know what i mean? like where youre in the, he had been pursuing me type thing and then when i was out on wednesday, during worship, i was just got this like okay, like im on my knees waiting for you to say yes, um, im a gentleman, so im not going to make you say yes to the proposal. um, but i want you to say yes, and, like, be ready, um, for our wedding day, and so i was like okay, like, im ready, and then he had me get re-baptized, and just like, okay, like, its time to prepare for thatand, so i feel like  because my mom and i talked about it  and thats what its going to be like my celebration. i want to be in my wedding dress, um, because ive obviously known a crappy marriage before, and its going to be people doing, its going to be like a wedding, basically. and me going to the father. and so basically, like right now hes saying lets start preparing for that day. um, like the preparations that we need to make for your dad
 of course! um
 and now i want, and this is something i dont know if its going to happen or notbut, like, you know the story where all these people are invited and they dont come, but god says, like, invite the people that you wont expect anything from. um, and what not into the streets, and so i kind of want it to be a day where like a lot of hoodless are invited to that. people that i didnt know, um, because they, i want them to get fed, you know, in a way. and i dont know, but i just kind of need to right now because on thanksgiving i want, or on christmas i want to invite a lot of homeless to our house and like have a feast. um, but it wasnt timing and like thats just something that was on my heart, um, and so i dont know. well kind of see how that comes about, um, but im sorry i dont mean to be sensitive about it, because
 ah. thank youum, i had bunion surgery [laughing]
 yeah, so be very careful. its like off, instead of straightyeah. my friendbut the surgery really hasnt been that bad, like, the crutches have been the worst part.
 umi might
 have you all been staying busy?
 all day, really?
 oh, im sorry.
 thank you. thank you very much.
 thank you. you, too.
 waterthank you.
 [laughing]
 it can go back there
 yeah. thank you so much.
 have a good day, [name].
 thank you.
 thank you, appreciate it.
 okay.
 (british accent) hello, im sorry that took so long. [laughing](regular voice) yeah? for what?...[laughing]ah, thats funah manyeah[laughing] like, dang it! [laughing]okay[laughing]uh huh
 what is the[whispering][inaudible]ok. autoimmune, which one is that? is that where
 ok, so they cant
 ok.
 ok[long pause]ok, oh that wasnt the bestis parathyroid hormone released by calcium or sodium?
 calcium or sodium?
 ok.
 ok, so there will be high levels of calcium in the blood
 what is the primary stimulus for para
 so what, would it be low levels of sodium, low levels of calcium, or high levels of sodium?
 youd want to get moreok.
 yea[pause]um[pause]
 ive re-ended somebody before [chuckle], and totaled my caryeayep
 i was going, so this person in front of me wasnt going fast enough so i got into the left lane, well they got right in front of me, so i slammed on my brakes
 i dont know
 i dont knowmaybe they were trying to get around me
 if youre a re-ender then yea.
 you ran into a stop sign? how did you do that?
 ive ran into a parked car before
 yea, i was listening to song that really like, so i turned it up, and was singing out loud i admit it. it was at my work. i worked at a dealership. it was a rental car, and it didnt do anything to the van at all, but like my rear end was smashed in so hard. it was a new car, i didnt go home for two days. so i went to my boyfriends house while they fixed it, and then i went home afterwe had a body shop at this dealership, so he did work on it there in the meantime, and then i went home afterwards
 oh, ok.
 oh, no!
 oh, no!
 oh my gosh.
 turn right? ok.
 yea. i have to be at work at midnight. well if you ever get a chance you come and see me
 today is tuesday.
 oh, gottcha.
 dang
 thats really long
 you do? do you like any of the people you are in the class with?
 its ok.
 oh.
 its ok. was it that garage?
 ok. gottcha.
 nice! i love when you get those parking spots
 ah, thats so great. youre like, yes!
 ill come over there.
 i can take you there if you want
 its just right hereoh shoot i cant.
 no, this is
 ok.
 yea, no problem. have a good day.
 ok. you too.
 byea sweet kidok.[driving]i have to go peei need to send out, and i need to write back[on the phone] hi. where are you studying at? oh, ok. [laughing]gottcha[laughing]awesome[laughing]yeathey start charging you[laughing]
 ok, kids, im back.
 mmhmm.
 there might be room for a sock.
 ok, so ive read, now i have to write. [singing]
 you got this girl, you got it.  
 [inaudible]
 um, i have one final to do online.
 yes.
 i might do that
 yea.
 i sure did.
 i want to see.
 um, not really[singing to self]
 [name]maybe we should put it in your name.
 nice.
 [singing along with music]
 good morning.
 how are you?
 goodgood.
 [singing with music again]
 oopsnow did you eat lunch already?...[name]?
 did you eat lunch already?
 [inaudible]
 ohohill come back to that maybe
 [laughing], you mean youre not making lunch?...[starts singing]
 awgot toyea[laughing]dang it[laughing]i know. i would love to, to get a voucher. thatd be cool.no[laughing]seriously [laughing]why notdid you guys have like.[laughing]did you end up having a good time the last couple of days?....goodthats awesomeoh, really?...ohwas [name] there the whole time?...really?...[laughing]good ol [name]yeayea, he isyeayeadid you change, um, contact information with [name2]?...oh, really?...yea, [name2] is a good guy. i bet you guys would be really good friends, if you lived him at state?yea[laughing]yeai didnt meet, um, i dont think i really met themyeaoh, coolawcool[laughing] yea?...uh huhniceim probably chickenniceyeathats awesomegood stuffthats awesomeoksure, yeaokthatd behey girl! how are you?...yea? why?...ah[laughing]yeshow many days until you going to [city]?...yes?...ah, for how many days will you be there?...yes
 ok, i really need to stop caring about this, but it really bugs me
 okwhat does it mean to have the a[fades into whisper]
 [laughing]
 okso im going to say[chuckle]ok, soif a [mumble][mumbling][clicking sound].[mumble]and youso what does this say hear? ok[laughing]i dont know the edictwhats an edict? oh, ok
 im going to take a quiz
 [chuckle]
 excuse me, i just cleaned my caryour hand print is so [inaudible]
 im just kidding [laughing]
 i have two
 nice.
 how do you think it went?
 no
 thats so awesome. thats great.
 really?
 i liked speech
 goodgoodim [name]
 hi, [name]. and youre [name2]?
 nice to meet you, [name2].
 oh, [name3]?
 hi, [name3]
 your real name is [name3]
 nice to meet you, [name3]. i wish i had a, like, a real name
 because it would be fun. like, this is victoria, but my real name is [name].
 i know, but it would be kind of funmy name is blah blah blah, but my real name iscome on, [name4], your 20 minuteswhere are you
 oh, yea. i think thats him with his friend. he did bring a friendyesthis is going to be awesome[inaudible]
 hes hereok. ok. you guys ready?
 yep! its really cool because gods like invite him. and im like are you sure, and hes like, yep thats my child ok. ill listen.
 im [name]. i dont know if you[laughing]
 oh, shootthank youoh my gosh
 its not funny [laughing]im not used to this
 i thought about that too, when i was getting ready to turn rightsorrythank you
 we are going to bible study.
 and its not [name8], its [name6].
 well now youre a sophomore. yay!
 im jun, a senior nowassuming i passed my physiology final [laughing]
 good, i get my cast off in
 oh, no, shes not home yetsweet [name][laughing] like come on
 get on therei love what they said about the character thing, you know? like
 dude, thats what i love about them. they are men, at least like those guysthey dont want to see a woman for their outside beauty. you know. they want the in-beauty, and even in themselves, like[sigh]just like, yes
 hello?...hello?...hello?...
 i was trying to talk to [name2], but it acted like the phone answered, but it didnt.
 oh yea.
 yea, i knowwhere is that?
 stupid shoe
 youd be surprised.
 could just do it all with a bunch of band-aids.
 uh huh.
 hopefully, i dont know. i have like a bunch of stuff coming up so thats annoying.
 yeah its like the end of the year. i have a bunch of stuff coming up in neuroscience. i have to finish reading this book, but its a really good book so i think im going to finish it this weekend and then ill write my report on it. and uh, im just hoping to get a lot done this weekend. 
 uh huh. yeah one of my moms friends had that. she watched his surgery he had brain surgery a couple weeks ago.
 yeah he got the same thing he did. you know that simulants in your brain that stimuli the dopamine
 yes. i got an a on my lab test.
 i got a 103.
 i was really excited.
 [inaudible]
 yeah. i just ate at three. i dont know what do you want to do?
 i havent either.
 we have until three. so i think im going to do it today.
 no i dont. [name] texted me this morning.
 she was like, [name] and [name] were outside talking, and i was like that was me and [name].
 yeah.
 no this morning. were you there this morning? did you go over there with me? i dont think so. and so she was like texting me. yeah it was weird.
 this morning.
 i dont know. i went to go print off my mythology project that i was working on and i forgot a paper clip, so i was walking back to the elevator and he just happened to be there. so we got in the elevator together. so then [name] texted me and she goes, i cant even wake up without being reminded of everything. i literally was woken up by their voices in the hall. really, can i move one? and thats right around the time that you said good morning to me. 
 well it was before 10
 eight, eight-thirty?
 oh, maybe it was you two then.
 but she texted me at 10
 i was there.
 so there is no way that she could have possibly of heard you. but then i was like are you sure that [name]? i was like [name] doesnt have class until like 10
 i know. i was like he lives across the hall from me what do you expect?
 but anyway it was just really funny. thats all i can really say to it that it was really funny. i was like that was mean.
 i dont know.
 we werent even outside of her door we were over a little bit. i was just like have a good day and he was like thanks.
 the years almost over, like i dont even care anymore.
 do you want me to vacuum?
 ill do it while you pack.
 no i like vacuuming. hurry up. let me up you
 this is really boring. im reading about the solid state of matter.
 i was joking!
 give it! give me the vacuuming. cmon i have fun vacuuming.
 i dont think so.
 aw. she likes you. a dog meeting?
 hey jel!
 p-e-e
 i said p-e-e-s--[laughter]
 [inaudible]
 [name] is going to [place]. to study abroad. like where did this come from you just told me you were going to transfer.
 no i wish. i told her she should come here.
 [name].
 who works today?
 do you think they sell coozies at the university?
 i want a coozy for this summer when i drink my [inaudible]
 i tried to get someone to cover it, but nobody would so.
 okay. alright love you.
 bye.
 yeah.
 shes trying do to 50 billion things at once. they are trying to rent a car and are trying to see if the guys can fix it. and they are trying to, you know do all this stuff. you want to go out honey [speaking to pet]?
 but she just said she was having so [inaudible]. like she, she was panicked. and she was, like, mad that my grandma told me what happened.
 i dont know. she was like, oh my god.
 okay. right. yeah.
 okay so i mean its the pair he got me [inaudible]so shes never worn them so ill just keep these because shes never worn them. so.
 yeah. so.
 but, uh, so [inaudible]um tell her[inaudible]
 so. im going to take that to her. but yeah anyway, alright.
 yeah i will. i may go to [name]s and then im going to be back and stop at the dorm and grab some underwear. and then, uh, come on back so. the dogs are so happy to be home.
 yeah theyve just been sleeping. well it was so funny
 yeah, no its not that bad. its been raining for a couple days here and then, uh
 the, uh
 uh let me look.
 its beenits freezing.
 yeah the wake looks like its up high.
 yeah the wind, its been awful. its awful, like i felt my car, like almost blowing. 
 its been so strong yeah. its frightful, but
 yeah i hope so.
 okay.
 i just woke up so
 okay. yeah. anyway, im going to head to [name]s and then come back.
 i will. thats why i am leaving now.
 alright i love you too.
 i will. 
 yep
 yea, and drink it up
  [inaudible]wheres it at?
 what fire truck?
 noooo!!!
 see
 aw thats awesome
 what?
 welllook how crowded and fun it looks because i left at 3
 this is catchy
 are you okay with the windows down? okay
 why?
 [laughing]
 you can only do it for so longits a [inaudible]
 just wonderingdid we already pass this [inaudible]?
 alright then well turn
 this is [inaudible]
 i was surprised to see [name] there last night
 i dont knowive only seen him that one other time that hes actually opening
 yeaunless i just missed him
 uh[inaudible]
 huh?
 i know what movie you are talking about
 she just, random [muffled] like
 [laughs] shes so excited. she knows youre happy 
 mhm
 cant you plan it so that [name] is up there the same-
 yep yep 
 thatd be great
 right, because one thing takes all day 
 right
 right 
 [muffled] looks like youre going to have to [laughs]
 he couldnt like [muffled] or anything?
 well maybe you should tell him early enough before he comes down [laughs]
 right i mean if your dads not going to be there [muffled] he cant really do anything
 [yelling] [laughing] 
 oh [muffled] parents [muffled] like my mom 
 [muffled] with me
 yeah [muffled] had to sit on the couch [muffled
 right 
 [muffled] phone [laughs]
 is what?
 monday nights
 im still bummed [muffled]
 ok
 yeah um i went this morning me and je- jeff [muffled] picked me up at like 10 this morning 
 yeah so [muffled] he said it would only be a couple of hours 
 so he took the tire off [muffled] and they had, and they put another tire on it [mumbles] 
 yeah, thats what i was saying [mumbles] longer
 huh?
 huh? 
 i didnt want them 
 theres, theres 3 of them there
 theres 3 of them there i only ate 1, someone else ate another
 ok 
 its cool dont worry about it 
 [muffled] went out this morning [muffled] bananas!
 its not a big deal
recording 9, 4/28/14, 6
 what?
 oh, yeaitd be easyi swear the clothes is like the one thing that takes up the most room
 i need to take a shower[gross noise]
 i didnt take a shower last night
 im totally kiddingi didnt take a shower today
 mhmmi was like you because i was going to get up and take a shower this morning, but you know i didnt really do that[laugh]i came back and slept until like 1
 yeai didnt have anything to do today, sobesides my car
 i could go fall asleep again, too
 look it
 yea, i can tell your face did
 do you have it on your arms? or were you
 ehyou cant really tell there
 mhmmright
 brown
 is she white?
 i know how the girl feels
 mhmm
 why didnt you pay for it?
 geez
 four dollars
 right? why cant she [inaudible]
 the hell
 well yea, if you take a shower in cold water its not gonna hurt. take a shower with hot water, and then tell me if it hurts
 its supposed to pull it out?
 have you seen the grilled cheese?
 oh godim sorry
 [mumble]
 okay, i just want to make sure
 yepits supposed to start raining anytime
 i think he said he just did it to get rid of himand then hes going to voice over itusing my pamand then hes got like
 i dont know my password
 it took me a minutei forgot my skype password
 to reset your password?
 thats what i just didit took me like two minutes
 where did that shirt come from?
 i said where did that shirt come from?
 oh, i was going to say i havent seen it before
 oh
 why, what is wrong with the shirt?
 why because its on you?
 youre terrible
 im just kidding
 i figured you fell asleep
 i figured you fell asleep
 i wouldnt have been surprised
 [inaudible]
 no
 didnt you have to do like a seven slide thing, right? like an activity, a hobby, or a sport, so activity would be changing[laughing]
 is it supposed to be factual and graphics, which its kind of factual
 there you goits really simple though
 your part is now done!
 nice! [laughing] thats kind of funny
 thats kind of funny though
 right
 yay!
 boo
 whats up?
 did what?
 oh
 ohdamn i was trying to hurry tooi figured you wanted to leave early
 its alright. [inaudible]im about ready[inaudible]i had six motherfucking [inaudible]it was like two and half hours drive out
 ill get it laterits my shoeits dirty
 mhmm
 thank you. [inaudible]
 oh i forgot to turn that offcouldnt find [inaudible]
 [whispering] b, c, d, f[movement]hmmm
 this dude makes really cool vines like that i dont know how he does it, but its freaking sweet.
 it says bikini-bottom turn up.
 [laughing] i love it! thats fantastic!...thats fantasticgod i love itremember fake tities i showed you before? um, that girl i said was the size
 mhmmshe was doing modeling. it doesnt look that bad there
 maybe its just the outfit she had on, just pushing them
 yeabecause they looked nasty
 [mimics sound] [laugh]
 oh my god!
 what is wrong with that guy? [laughing] what is wrong with that guy!
 what the fuck?
 some of the people, some of the things people come up with are fucking weirdyouve ever seen darcy the bartender, right?
 like at the end of the night when i was sitting, like over by that bar, the lady
 she does the burlesque dancing
 she dresses in all the different little costumes [laughing]
 i just like with how comfortable she is
 she used to be a lot bigger than thatoh my godthere doing it on a fuckin airplane
 you just see all the old people looking up
 [choking] okaygood for her! i wouldnt do something like thati, oh, i dont know i guess i respect that, like, shes just that comfortable.
 she goes by [name]thats her fake name. thats her stage name
 see, thats, thats her
 damn, she was
 oh, wowoh, wowyeai do, too. itll be fine. i was going to say its only like worth like a total of 20 points. im pretty sure shellits [name], he went and sleptshes not that badshes just weird as fuck[laughing][laughing]you want a cookie? [laughing] i got a cookie from the chiropractor today. it was a peanut butter cookie, and it was awesomeokay, well, ill be looking for those videosalright, see ya[laughing] because the chiropractor was like, alright, i want to try something new on ya. i was like, but i dont wanna he was i said, alright, but only if i get a reward and he was like, i have cookies. i was like alright, deal! [laughing]
 and he really gave me onei didnt think he would[sigh] butter, butter, butterthats going to be stuck in my headokay, it may upload faster, i think. because youtube took no time at all
 compared to the first one, but thats probably because im messing with it right now
 [inaudible]
 [snickering] we got to kaboom that kitchen sinkcuz its got those rusty spots on ittheyre like stains from the sos pads
 like put coke, and just let it sit on there for a little bit
 ill try to do that this weekenddid [name3] tell ya that [name4] got left in [state]?
 i thought that was so funny! [laughing]until i heard the detail, and then i was like, okay thats really mean
 its still funny [laughing]
 [typing] [sigh] my absso were sitting there in the gym, and [name3] shows me this new, this new ab thing
 where you go like this, and touch your healand its supposed to work your obliques.
 so were sitting there goinglike this
 it actually does though, like right here
 i can feel a pull
 [laughing] im just like
 [laughing]i dont know how to make it pretty big
 where the fuck did you find that?
 is it good?
 i guess well see then[laughing]
 yea, pops wont like vegetables in it
 yea, i was like, my dad was kind of oddand
 i have a different professor than [inaudible] because [inaudible]
 i would rather do this than fuckin eight page paper
 did you not do it?
 my point
 i didnt even do it
 yeai didnt end up doing it because i got sick, so he didnt understandhe basically said if youre not here, you dont get credit
 mhmmhe was being a dick about it
 [i dont know sound] i was sick
 my teacher
 its codingthis is what ive been messing withjust something really dinky
 [drinking] whats on now? [hick-up]
 who the fuck is austen mahone?
 no thats what im saying, like, who the fuck is he?
 yesalright guyscan i steal the tv? its watching sad puppy themes
 hopefully
 [inaudible]its 200 fucking points
 right?
 i dont understand
 and negative fat
 and 100% carbs
 [laughing] is this high school?
 i havent watched it yet
 it looks like back in the day
 its really old, too
 theres [name2]shes a lizardis this how you all use to hang out in school?...hes throwing pencils as lightning bolts! [laughing]
 this is newyea.
 i needed a really thin one
 [whispers] what is going on?
 nice.
 i think i have the predict part, and mines easy because its like predict what will happen if nothing, no intervention
 because ours is like nicotine addiction, and ill just be like oh you can get cancer, or all these health problems, and youll die.
 how many stands, do you know?
 thats annoying
 she said dont do?...our teacher is like, ah, powerpointim very bias toward powerpoint, hes like, i really prefer powerpoints. so like everyone basically has to do
 what are you supposed to do? [laughing]
 what else are supposed, like this is a project where you get up and just talk
 well thats just a powerpoint, like, just something fancy, like
 im actually glad i got the person i got because hes like really boring, but hes at least nice
 chilled...a lot of people you talk to do not like their psych majors.
 thats what i domost of the time and not pay attention
 yea, you just need the book
 i know
 except that would be writing a paper, instead of doing a group project, and sharing the work.
 thats the only thing
 im just so scared to take an online class because i feel like i wouldnt do it
 i would put it off
 especially like being in anatomy now, i would just put it off to the side like, no.
 i knowim like anatomy is top priority.
 do you get d-good grades though?
 oh my god.
 im scared for the grade im going to get on the paper in here
 and then try to [inaudible]
 i knowi didnt do the exercises so i need a like a good grade
 honestly i think if you just do it, you will get a six out of six.
 and i thought eight was the one i didnt do all of my [inaudible], so i was like what? [laugh]like theres no way she grades all of them
 she was like, oh yea, dont mind me just packing up
 shes so [inaudible]
 hes so [inaudible], and hes like, you cant wash these here i was like [inaudible]
 oh my goshdid you wear that sweater today? on top of your shirt?
 really?
 why would you wear your fleece? they just want to see the fleece
 i know, the only reason i wear it now is because we said that. like, i was just, i looked down and i was like, oh my god. he said that. [laughing] because usually i dont wear it. [laughing]
 yea, thats something i usually do too, i just wear like a zip up hoodie
 no
 yea, you guys almost got me in trouble. [laughing]. we mine as well have been like, alright we are ready to go on our [inaudible]. i mean were not ready to go. shes like, im so sorry, im wearing jeans today. and hes like, i didnt even realize, like, hes like,  well stay back because theres other people in the [inaudible]. she felt so badand then you guys came in[laughing]like, ah
 yeajust want to sit right here?
 what?
 oh, yea[inaudible]
 he doesnt ask anyone who just sits in there. hell like fall and stuff
 no, like, ill sometimes, ah, ill like work on
 what?
 [loud laugh] thats what
 right
 rightoh my godoh my godi was going to bed, i have a, a, um, project in art class that, and we were all trying to figure out where we could all go, and everyones like, oh my god, we dont want to go on the weekend. so then, they were like what about thursday? and i was like, yea, i have class until like 3, and then im good to go. and then i checked next week, next thursday in my schedule and its like the one thursday that i dont get out until 5. i was like, well we can go after 5
 are you lying to me, like, are you applying for [inaudible] next year?
 why dont have [inaudible], like, [inaudible]
 theres a guy here at [campus], and he went to my high school, and hes a grade younger than me, and he started already. like in [inaudible], like, early
 so theres like all these 20 year olds, and like probably not even 18 year old[laughing]so i hope [inaudible]
 yeano because [inaudible]
 hey, thats outside of the nursing building.
 he looks like hes crying
 why do you want to go to [city]? you going to smoke some weed?...yea? [laughing noise]
 per person?
 what are you looking at?...what? what is that?...nope, okay
 ughbecause its been raining all day.
 what? what are you barking at?
 one wild competition, i tell you
 steinbackoh, hmm, ahhoh, just kidding
 what?
 why does she have to say it like that? it was like, mark..twain, mark twain.
 stents.
 what? human genomeyea, genomethats what i said.
 homo sapiensoh
 five i dont know if thats rightits not[inaudible]
 what?
 hold on
 ah, selfie!
 send me that
 give me one so i can put it on my phone
 well they all look the same.
 more [inaudible]you want to do a selfie?
 [laughing] no
 wheres the [state] guy?
 what?
 [name]
 [name], [name], [name], uh, uh...hey
 i donti dont knowwe go like this, and then
 oh we only tap in that [inaudible]
 i dont know[laughing]it goes, tapi dont know
 [laughing] yea give me a second. i [inaudible]
 okay because i was just going to say that feels awkward
 [laughing]okay, ready?
 alright so raise your fists
 yea.
 so just
 yea, i think soso were supposed to go 1, 2im so scared to do this. [laughing] i dont want to hit you
 i know[laughing]i feel like i am going to like hit myself trying to keep it inmy hand gets crampy..
 what?
 it was thalamusi knew it was thalamus
 yea. there are other structuresexcept he didnt count off any for coming longest.
 i just missed four
 lets seedang
 nonot really
 oh my gosh. class is almost over for the semesterwe only have two more tests and a finaland our next test is next tuesday, so we only have
 yes
 and the next final exam is all multiple choice
 the nervous, the nervous [inaudible], the nervous system of some people.
 i feel like, i feel like i havent learned like anything. i feel like it hasnt stuck with my brain, like
 i did my diagrams and my [inaudible]
 i knowits probably not recording. i honestly dont know when its recording. it might have gotten some bad stufflike me driving to school getting really angry and shouting[laughing]like this morning, like i was running late, and everyone was going slow and i was just like, im going to kill somebody and i was like, if this is recording, im not really going to kill someone because like i dont want them to report me, im just like and im late for school[laughing]i was like talking to it
 but i dont know if it was recording
 yea.
 well for psych you know how we get research credit?
 it started out i did the survey, and then i took a bunch of other survey so i got all my credits really fast, and then they contacted me and was like, hey would you mind coming into the lab and i had to do some crazy tests in the lab, and they were like we can give you two credits or $10 an hour. and i was like ill do $10 an hour and it took three hours, so i got 30 bucks and at the end they were like would you be interested in doing like another thing with us and like wearing
 yea
 grandma.grandma [inaudible]
 stop. stop
 you need to stop.
 [inaudible whisper]
 three
 condensed notes
 and this is all the [inaudible]
 oh
 mmhmm...
 yea
 [laughing] thats how you lose. did you eat?
 did you eat?
 um, probably
 if you pay them, they might [inaudible]youre a boy
 you have a mustacheno you have a vagina.
 no, we dont need to go in therei was going to ask them about
 its the same office.
 the owner
 dont
 were definitely going to have to budget stuff out, like really, and then stay with itlike to a t.
 well then why are we going there?
 you said so!
 im just saying we are going to write everything out, specifically.
 yes. i thought so, tooand were not going to include [name]s for our rent. were going to have that for extra money. you know what i mean?
 okoh yea, thats right. your dads money and then your, your, oh work money
 yea
 too muchyou make almost the same amount as [name 2] on [inaudible]
 and she, like, works full time, almost.
 she works like 30 hour, she works like 30 hour weeks. [laughing]
 you doyou work long shifts, you dont work, like, everyday, but you work long shifts.
 uhon friday?
 how are we? what are we doingare we going through here?
 really? oh are we going through this way?
 i know
 oh, theits closed on the other side too.
 i know, i didnti was like oh, i can wear cloggs, its not raining anymore i didnt want to wear rain boots if its not raining. [singing]
 oh, [name 3], [laughing]
 heres what [name 3] said, shes like, yea, i gave your friend my number, but he still hasnt texted me. and shes like, but his other friend is so sexy and i was like, whats his name? and she said, [first name 4] and i said, [full name 4]? she was like, did he apply? i was like, yes. i was like, honest. i was like, [name 3], please dont get with him
 thats what i said, like you might get an std[laughing]thats what i said. i was like, yea, hes attractive. i totally understand, but hes a, hes a i was like, i was like, if you just want like a one night thing
 i guess its fine
 i know i was like, [name 5] or [name 6]. and he was like, no i dont. you know me i was like, i know. i was like, [name 5], i told [name 6] to respect you, so
 okayso it is doneokay
 oh, yea
 if youre locked out[laughing]
 thats so nice
 ok
 [laughing] okay
 online, yeaokay.
 awesome
 thank you
 nice to meet you
 thank you.
 [laughing] you are so funny
 because you just talk and talk and talk. youre like, yea, were willing to stay here, and we hated it. they were terrible. [laughing]
 they were telling the whole story, and we just like, yea, okay.
 [laughing]
 yea, like when i looked at it, i saw the features
 like, kind of loudand she said it was a two bedroom
 [laughing] i know
 they said contact them in julyum
 anna, reveribo, [inaudible] and that one where those posts were in the street, and it hadremember that one? it was, like, in that cute little area
 yea
 it was in that revery estates, [inaudible], or that other one that i showed you
 i dont knowwell i just know its revery, and they have one leasing office
 its around herewe can just go here real quick and just talk to them. because if
 because they have a waiting list. so, i dont know
 oh yea, you shouldve
 revery did call me back, tooafter we gave them information
 we didnt know enough at the time, so i never called her back
 yea. i know thats whyumthats why some places its confusing because its like, should i come to you know and get on the wait list, or is it like [name] and theyre like, dont talk to me until july
 i dont know if we have to make an appointment or not
 wevery[address]
 yea
 we have thirty minutes
 yea
 i[recording ends]
 [inaudible]
 just like talkingbut its a good chunk of time, like, its a good
 around my time
 if i need to?
 if i need to, um, i could always talk to [name] about getting more hours
 shes just running fast places to get meher boyfriend works therehe can sometimes get higher up than i can, but, like, its not a whole, its not too many hours. like, i would just talk to her when the time comes, and be like, hey thats what her boyfriend did. he was like, hey, my girlfriends [inaudible]
 its not like, he works normally, and sometimes [name] does it. and the other day, [name] tweeted. he works the valet, and, like, i would have to do shit like that
 yea, i could get in, i just hope [name] stays with her boyfriend[laughing]at least to the fall, and then i can just get with her and be like, hey, does your boyfriend split people in valets? maybe
 the j.w.
 huh? because [name2] just started, and he does the valet stuff extra
 shes going to be, like, a bell bop personthats what he does too
 but hes like, of course hes like the guy that does the valet and [inaudible]
 yea
 no, i understand
 comfortably
 or i could get another job on campus and [inaudible]
 i just need another jobevery dollar ive had [inaudible]. every time, thats why i quit, because the schedule because they always [inaudible]
 they started scheduling me like thirty hours for two weeks for five days, and id have to be there super late, and stuff
 im just going to wait and see how school is because i want, if schools like super hard, ill start freaking out [inaudible]
 [inaudible]yea
 no
 no i know
 i dont have one, thats whywhen you get four thats whybecause [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible][laughing]
 champs
 what picture? no.
 [inaudible]
 we went together [inaudible]
 yea
 yeaits a carnival at christmas. we used your $10 off card they sent you for your birthday
 yes
 yea, i turn it back in tomorrow
 uh, the paper
 no, he goes to the gymim going to meet him there
 i dont think im going to wear those to the gym, yet, because i wanted [mumble]theyre like high waist, and dont sound good. theyre clunky and [inaudible]
 well i was scared, i thought about selling them because i was looking online at the website the other day, and it said this item is no longer available. so i went into the store, and was like, did you guys stop selling them? and she was like, what? no we have them right here and i was like, [sigh of relief]  
 huh?
 oh, im filling out my journal thing
 no[answering tv] b
 at least she did it
 i dont think she is, like, [inaudible]its so loud
 no itsit is. its, like, weird. i dont know if shes doing it maybe [laughing]i mean [inaudible]walking out in the neighborhood [inaudible]she just does it every time. she just like announces. announces
 it is!
 oh my gosh
 yea, but its not going to ever do that
 what?
 do i want to [inaudible]? [laughing]
 yes, i want to go
 connecticut. university of connecticut
 yea, nouh, [inaudible] connecticuti could always go
 when i went to the orthodontist, i was like fourth grade, there was this, there was this march madness competition, and like, you just had to put in a jar, like, what team you thought would winlike win it alland i ended up winning, and my mom was with me and she didnt know, and she looked in the jar and was like, well i see uconn a lot, whatever that is shed write that down, for both the mens and the womens
 i won a basketball and some piz, a free pizza
 they took everyone who picked uconn
 yea. and i, i was like, i didnt even know what uconn was, i didnt know what state it was in, so
 everyone in the jar, it was a jar and you entered it, and you just entered whatever team, so like, everyone in the jar who picked uconn won. it was like a decent, like a few people
 [laughing]i was like, what would everyone else think?
 when i entered. i was like what would everyone else thinki dont know. 
 [laughing]
 look at that person
 hes going really fast. look they do everything fastwhy does everything have to be fast? theyre just like, [movement] like that. watch it
 our business starts at 1pm?
 what day is it?
 is it like a thursday, or something?
 okay. i was like, im not going to be happy
 finalsyeah.
 uh huh.
 i knowi want to, too, but i need to pay attention today, so i can do good on my [inaudible] quiz. i have to fill this out like what ive been, like what im doing.
 for this device  i have to say like how im feeling, like what i was doing, and like how i was feeling. so i bet theyre gonna like compare like my voice to like my
 [with class] yes
 [mumble]thank you.
 [whisper] wait, this was worth 34?
 [0
 move over
 im going to
 okay, well i found your account, too, so
 the base for today is [inaudible], and afterwards
 okay, thanks.
 thank you, and you have $10.75 left.
 what can i get for you?
 yeah, you just want a cup of it?
 do you have an account with us?
 its like a separate account here; you can just put money on itumthat will be $1.99
 it has to be over $15, but you can open an account and put $15 on it, and then just like use it over there
 okaythank you.
 thats fine.
 seeim going to do that on my psychology test; dont care, already have an a+ in there.
 umprobably like 12pm
 i was going to say not 12pm
 whenever
 this one, i can take it at any time
 so ill probably take it by 1pm or 2pm
 are you wanting to go shopping like in the morning?
 can we go after because i have to like study in the morning before i have to take it
 [laughing] we dont have any more food.
 but yeah, we just, we just
  i felt like an idiot last night when i saw your dad because i was standing there
 he didnt, he didnt see me. i was standing like this, and i was like [noise] because he couldnt, he wasnt even looking [laughing].
 it was saturday.
 im glad [name] is with [name]
 ohreally?
 it doesnt look as good on her[laughing]
 aw
 youre thirsty? you want a drink?
 [laughing]
 she wasyeah because her mom
 how is she going to get to work?
 nuh uhwhat did you say?
 and i went downstairs and came back upstairs and hes putting every single picture back up on the wall.
 like and it really irritates me that i can go up to bat for him and he cant go up to bat for me.
 thats like the big like the biggest irritating factor that ive been with him through everything like when she cheated, when he cheated on her. he, i lied for his ass. 
 like it just irritates me. so irritated. maybe its just because im getting my thing of the month.
 irritated. the irritation has just escalated.
 oh god
 yes
 oh
 thats when you know.
 [name] and i have been arguing a little.
 because he just, heres the thing. heres the thing, he wants to be single. like thats what he told me. and i was like ok well if you want to be about the single life, you cant be about the [name] life. thats how it is. and i dont know i just i keep asking him to give me answers but he doesnt have answers. so its not really working out.
 be patient and
 i know right.
 turn up
 thats my favorite part. [giggle]
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 no.
 i dont think so. 
 this law firm would handle. what i can do is i can give you the telephone number for the [city] bar association. 
 yes. just let them know that um they referred you to the wrong attorney. okay. and i can give you that telephone number if you need it. 
 okay. good luck. good bye.
 hi. yes. im calling in regards to a property. im wondering um who the owner is. i know its going through foreclosure, but i didnt know if the ownership had transferred yet.
 its [address]. 
 yes. is that the owner?
 okay. does it say anything about the foreclosure? or?
 [address] 
 right. so the
 i was going to say would um would the owners of the property still have any um you know ability to go in and make repairs to the property?  
 okay.
 um, i think it was 2012 maybe.
 yes, absolutely. thank you.
 yes.
 right.
 oh. i can give her a call later but i really appreciate the help. 
 [clearing throat]
 hello, is this [name]?
 hi [name]. this is attorney [name] giving you a call in regards to the hearing on thursday.
 i just... [name] had me um give you call to let you know just to be at the court about eight thirty on thursday.
 um in that any i guess any payments that are due or owed are going to be due on that day. 
 yes.
 okay. if you have any questions hell be back in the office um lets see tomorrow afternoon. feel free to give him a call. okay.?
 alright thanks [name]
  okay.
 thank you.
 buh bye
 yes.
 lunch.
 if you want. like that. [inaudible]
 [sneezes]
 thanks.
 are you going upstairs? stop putting that shit on him.
 dont put that stuff on him.  
 he doesnt have any fleas.
 there arent any fleas on me.
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 i just showered.
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 too much. thats why youre sick all the time. 
 yes.
 we just need to figure out what, uh we are doing for dinner that night. id rather do a dinner then a gondola ride. wouldnt you? after dinner?
 really?
 its more romantic at night. hows that?
 yeah.
 yeah. i mean you said you found a good review though. 
 thats probably more reason to book in advance with this guy. 
 hey, hows it going? how have you been? how are you feeling?
 really?
 alright, so i was coming in to pick up some documents. i would just need some copies with the staples out. um.  
 yeah. i just need copies of this file.
 whats that?
 oh, really? is it saying toner low? alright, um yeah, erin just came in so she would be ready to go for that.
 yeah, so it changed to [inaudible] instead of a c but she increased it to four years instead half of four years, so its online four years [inaudible]. 
 so thats beyond, um, standard probation. [inaudible]
 hey if you wouldnt mind at some point i was wondering if you could go online and take a look at my wedding sample. 
 its pretty short its like seven pages, but [inaudible].
 oh, yeah.
 [inaudible] round tables for [inaudible] samples [inaudible].
 yeah. 
 do you have the [name] file?
 [clears throat] 
 hello, im looking for [name].
 um, this is, um [name]. 
 hi is this [name]?
 okay. hey [name], hows it going?
 good. um, i just wanted to call and let you know um i contacted dcs to set up that interview. and i need dates for you and [name] for when youre available, what time, that kind of thing. 
 um, you can give me a call back. 
 sounds good.
 alright, thanks [name]. bye.
 hey. go okay?
 okay. find a lighter?
 of course you did.
 very. [laughs]
 um, i just refiled it.
 yeah. um, we mailed it to her. [clears throat] 
 um yeah, you can put them up.
 wait, when was um [name]s date because i need to put their dates in this. thanks. yeah, im looking at the [inaudible]. it looks good so far. 
 hey, you.
 yeah, why so late? 
 got you. 
 yeah. 
 hows she doing?
 yeah. 
 good. 
 im watching tv, the dogs begging to get inside, waiting for you to cook dinner. i can, um start the um, i was going to make the rest of those buffalo wings. i can start those and we can have an appetizer with that. 
 yeah. get chippies, too. 
 alright?
 it wont be that much.
 nope.
 see you soon. 
 bye. 
 [clears throat] [opens door] come on, poochie. good boy. here. sit. good boy. 
 [clears throat] 
 [inaudible]
 yeah.
 what [inaudible].
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible] three months [inaudible]
 [inaudible]. its like a [inaudible].
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 theyre not going in there.
 theres the beach. 
 there should be a barcelona guide, too. 
 what about pinks do barcelona? 
 because they talk about getting your tickets to museums. 
 yeah, but i think somebody that
 oh, wait, maybe not.
 alright, i think its actually [inaudible].
 yeah. 
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 its okay, poochie. 
 ive been looking for everything for a form so this is kind of
 just now. last night, that was only the first one i finished.
 [inaudible]
 so, what are we going to do?
 back out? yes.
 ten thirty?
 progress. am i supposed to press pause?
 [inaudible] 
 definitely. 
 yeah. 
 [inaudible]. is it not on cable? um, um, um.
 [yawns]
 [sighs] its five seconds of summer.
 um
 [whispering] i have to write [singing along with the radio]
 um, a classmate of mine texted me asking if i like them. her music, im were very much on the same page with music so im assuming theyre coming to the vogue, so i was just curious if you ever heard of them. i need to text her back eventually. what do i want to do? what do i want to do with these? [inaudible]. i cant remember the last time i had tater tots. thats going back.
 oh, yeah. oh, yeah! im just going to cook all of them and see what happens. 
 odds are may the odds be ever in your favor. 
 yeah. heres the bummer about reading i cant remember a lot of those things i read, but theres worse things in life. i dont know, this is a, this is a [inaudible] order doing this. oh my god! twenty minutes? [sigh]
 i do. i dont feel like anything else, so [inaudible]. how is that apple? delicious and nutritious?
 what do you mean, [inaudible]? 
 oh okey dokey. keep losing what im needing to look at. its in here! so, what else do you have going on this week?
 here, you can [inaudible].
 nice.
 wait, back into town? 
 is he coming right here? 
 okay. 
 why is he in [state]?
 okay.
 okay.
 really?
 okay.
 cool!
 okay.
 huge house?
 okay. i was a little unclear on that story. you guys were talking real fast, i couldnt quite keep up. who is
 why?
 no!
 that was a fun night. i had a good time. i had a really good time. 
 um what i was confused about is thats not her house, thoughthats like her 
 ...aunts? okay. she stays there?
 somewhere in middle america?
 yes. ive heard of it, yes.
 did she go back to [college name]?
 see? can i sit here?
 so she lives with them now?
 [laughing] the towering 
 [inaudible]
 oh, you, uh, should
 [groans] 
 [inaudible]
 i wish i could do that. i would be the boss, we could lay in bed for hours, have breakfast together 
 i got a lot to do, but first lets [inaudible] you up. im going to make you breakfast.
 [inaudible]
 yeah.
 i just want [inaudible].
 were you asleep?
 just wanted to be closer to you.
 you wanted nothing to do with that.
 [inaudible] did i snore?
 cool. [inaudible]
 take your chance.
 [singing]
 i have to [inaudible]
 [inaudible] 
 i still need this. theres too many here. son of a gun! i dont have that? [groaning]
 [inaudible]
 good, how are you?
 um, i think im good. thank you, though. 
 excuse me.
 hello.
 [inaudible]. what? 
 the private schools.
 catholic private schools.
 um, was is in [city]? 
 oh.
 okay.
 sure, i mean four hundred years.
 okay. so, maybe it was a good thing. 
 parents know best in a lot of cases. 
  why?
 i think its i dont know anything about [city], so i find it interesting. i like geography and learning about different cities. i was going to say cultures, but, like, i sound like a douche if i say culture when its, like, two hours away. 
 [laughing]
 okay. you brought something up a really long time ago and ive been meaning to bring it up again because i cant i was confused by this. its not something serious, dont worry. okay. you looked at me like oh god, here we go. okay, [celebrity name] is from [city]?
 [neighborhood]? you said thats a really rich area?
 okay. thats interesting because i thought, like, he grew up really poor. 
 okay, this how do you know hes from [neighborhood]?
 okay.
 [name] whos [name]?
 [inaudible]
 thats definitely a rehab [inaudible].
 interesting.
 okay. 
 [neighborhood]
 yeah, im trying to think ilike, some, uh, uh, sometimes he talks about
 okay. the way he describes his childhood doesnt sound good at all. 
 so, maybe
 oh of course. of course, of course, of course. thats not what im trying to say. if youre looking at pure statistics 
 its, uh, uh, not fair, but typically if you have money you tend to have less social issues. and not im not trying to be, like, racist or anything like that because, i mean, theres definitely some rotten, nasty white people, but whatever. thats not it. [laughs] but like, if you just look at, like, um, like an affluent suburb compared to a down trotted urban area.
 if you look at the amount of dollars going into the homes and then you see, like, the crime, how much it isobviously, i mean, you cant dispute those facts. thats just fact. 
 thats all im trying to say. 
 and then again, i, uh, was just curious about that because i was like oh, i didnt because, like, i know he talks about, like, i think his, like, brother or sister was, like, a drug dealer. 
 i had two older brothers, one hood, one good. 
 and an old, older sister who kept providing for us if she could. yeah, uh, something like that. maybe its just smoke, but, like, i, uh thought, like, there was more, like, a disruptive type of family dynamic.
 i, uh, know nothing about his life. im not, im not saying i know. i can wikipedia it real quick, but thats not going to tell me a whole lot. i mean
 i dont know the guy.
 oh, yeah, thats totally
 im not, i am not calling you a liar. i just wanted to clarify what you said because i
 you brought it up and i, uh, just let it go because i dont know, its like 
 oh, i know. i am not [inaudible] that up. 
 im a [city] rolling with some [city] boys. i, uh, uh, uh remember that. [laughs]
 i definitely knew that.
 [giddy cheer]
 okay.
 what do you mean by restrict? why would i
 no, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh. give me a time constraint, then ill
 itd be
 okay.
 i listened to that cd again and there was song i really liked but i cant remember what it was called. or shoot. im sorry. it might have even been just the first song. i cant remember what that was, though. 
 did you lock the door?
 did you lock the door?
 thank you. i cant remember.
 [inaudible]
 it smells like marijuana.
 were always around marijuana!
 ive never had, besides my sister; ive never had a roommate that didnt smoke. i dont care.
 no, [name] didnt smoke.
 no, thats a, thats a total lie. i just lied to you. dont believe anything i say. 
 no. i, uh, uh, i do not, i do not care. oh, this is the [inaudible] of the door. oh. cool. i do not care whatsoever.
 i mean, im not going to, like, take part and get caught. [inaudible]
 oh yeah, absolutely. im not going to say anything; im just going to be like i dont know.  
 [inaudible] this is [inaudible]. she hasnt drunk at all?
 oh.
 thats a good reason not to do it then. [inaudible]
 okay.
 thats what makes sense. 
 when was the last time you smoked?
 when was that?
 oh, its been a while.
 its been a while.
 i was going to say. i was going to say.
 yeah.
 okay. those things happen. [singing] im going to paint it like a [inaudible][talking] and a [beer brand name] to spare. fuck you, roommates.
 go for it.
 go for it. lets get cracking on this. okay. first thing, boom shakalaka. 
 okay, i couldnt find breadcrumbs anywhere, so i got, like, um, cornmeal, so im hoping that will be similar. 
 [sigh] 
 youre a loser. [laughs]
 [laughs] fuck you, siri. [inaudible singing] this is exact, woot!
 im trying to think of what i should say. i want to keep on caring about myself as bad as that sounds. 
 kind of what i had said about [inaudible] earlier. i, uh, want to keep on trying to do the best for myself. 
 um does that really answer your question? i did the same answer for two different parts [inaudible]. 
 because of the hardship or because of the relationship? because, uh, of the hardship the way i thought reallyi mean, it just made me angry. just the way.id be content with how it ended and how its finishing out, how its playing out. im not content with how it was played out. uh, the relationship, once, like i said earlier made me understand how to care about someone else so it was positive in that aspect, i think. yeah.
 its the mostit was me i was thinking about. so, its the main thing, i was manifesting with things of mine. it was that i was upset that she was somewhere else and i was also somewhere else. like, i just wanted her to be here. 
 you know? but she was obviously not, so, i mean, i was mostly thinking about thatthat i wanted her there. 
 not very well. um, i felt like i was in control, but i dont reallyin retrospect, i dont really feel like i was controlling the situation well because its hard to control when she is somewhere else and im somewhere else. not much you can do about ityou can facetime, but, i mean, thats not nearlythats not the same as having the person there. 
 you know, like, long distanceit just sucks. it just sucks. not something i would want to experience again. 
 i think my parents probably, they just kind of put up with me and thats really it. because, like i said, i really dont talk to a lot of people. um, i talk to my parents, i talk to my sister, [inaudible] and people at work and thats really about it. i mean, i dont really involve myself in the life of other people, so it would only affect, like, my family. and its just because i was pissy. yeah. but i always, ive always tried to, like, do stuff around the house, like, cook and clean and pick up sticks because we, like, moved to, like, a giant farm.
 so, we had like six, five, six acres that has, like, a bunch of trees. i was trying to make up for it in other ways that i could maybe help myself.
 um. well, they would mention [name] frequently because they really liked her. so, the whole not talk about stuff theyd seen on facebookbecause they have facebook and twitter. um, so just, um, like them mentioning it would agitate me, you know? but that was really about the extent that other people were impacting it besides herbesides her.
 i forgot to ask do you want me to use cash or do you want me to use a card?
 okay, alright xxxx 
 love you.
 no im just going to go ahead [inaudiable]
 in the, in the barrel xxxx i dont know it was dirty i didnt want to bring it in.
 pretty low
 um it could maybe use a bag but not really if you dont have to, you know what i mean.
 oh yeah, definitely
 yeah.
 because i dont 
 i will
 and then well pick stuff out of my pocket.
 and thatll take my turn
 hell no.
 i was thinking you know, i was thinking maybe the chinese place right next to it.
 give it, give it a whirl.
 i was actually really thinking that.
 yeah there was a commercial on the radio about them this morning.
 one of these years we ought to do kroger sometime xxxx.
 instead of turkey get a ham or something.
 a little more ham than turkey, yeah you got to have turkey on thanksgiving, well eat the ham more than we will the turkey. 
 talk to mom about making some deviled eggs. xxxx that and a pan of her xxxx. heck yeah
 we can just eat it cold remember we used to cut off a big old hunk of it.
 [inaudiable]
 it doesnt have to be but its better like that. supposed to get that kitchen going we need to make us some meat balls.
 well get well get a [inaudiable]
 im sleeping
 no itll be fine all im going to do is sleep if i roll over
 xxxx my phone
 no no, xxxx he said when your home you can move into another room it dont matter
 no just when its on, when its on it has to be in your pocket. and that has to be facing out so people can see it because if they dont want to be recorded i can put it in my pocket so they, till they walk away from me and i can pull it back out.
 so like at work tonight i can go and slide it in my pocket, it seems pretty narrow xxxx so.
 and hell it goes off at midnight. and itll turn back on at 6am tomorrow
 and then i got some paperwork to fill out on it too.
 yeah, yeah, yeah. if youre home you can just sit it on a table near where youre at or whatever, in the other room somewhere close to you and you know. just wanting to pick up you know the environmental sounds pretty much. no im not crazy.
 he was very impressed though with um how well i did with the memorable. he had a number thing too, its a number sequence. he goes im going to give you a set of numbers and you have to um listen to them um i want you to give them back to me in numerical order like one, two, three, you know like that. he goes lets start out with just you know a couple of numbers at a time then being a longer set of numbers. and i did really well on that test. a lot of it was memory too and stuff like that and im like shit my memory is shot so whatever. 
 well then he, well he got into talking about drug use and stuff like that.
 i did tell him that. i said uh, i said well theres been some periods in time that i dont really remember my childhood very much for certain periods and stuff. he goes well thats normal. he goes for a lot of people thats you know xxxx my parents got divorced he goes thats the reason why right there.
 but yeah he goes, um with drug use and stuff he was asking about marijuana use and um.
 i said i used to smoke, i said im not going to lie i used to smoke. i said i was a daily smoker for a long time, i said but i dont smoke anymore um. then he got into you know have you ever done cocaine? i said yes ive done coke, i said never on a regular basis or anything but i, if it was around id do it. then he got into um, um, um hallucinates; mushrooms, lsd and stuff like that. and i said yeah i said uh i was pretty heavy into that for a couple years, quite a few years. he goes, well how heavy? i said well, real heavy lets just put it that way [laughter].
 [inaudiable]
 ill be right back.
 see ya.
 no. customer service. biling. questions
 yup.
 yup.
 yeah
 [inaudiable]
 [inaudiable]
 [inaudiable]
 i did.
 i told them extra icing. 
 i dont know, sweetheart. 
 [inaudiable]
 yeah. [inaudiable]
 xxxx i get it now okay.
 [inaudiable]
 [inaudiable]
 [inaudiable]
 [inaudiable]
 probably
 okay
 doing what?
 mhm
 how much was it again?
 yeah.
 [says number]
  thats weird
 something like that i think.
 they wouldnt have your phone number
 yeah.
 yeah i know.
 um something about they called and ordered a pizza xxxx. and then the address was different and it was like down the road or something, somebody elses credit card name was used. hes like man this has happened to me before theyve done this to me before. what they do is they, so they have two houses, they call and order, they call and order the house, call and order the pizzas from one house and go down to the other house to pick it up.
 xxxx the person who was calling about it he asked about it said it was frustrating because he sat the phone down and he goes god and hes loud anyway. he goes god this fucking thing [laughter].
 xxxx it seems like all we do before i go xxxx
 [inaudiable]
 yeah
 [inaudiable]
 [inaudiable]
 [inaudiable]
 [inaudiable]
 as far as work goes [inaudiable]
 yeah thats bullshit. [inaudiable]
 [inaudiable]
 the roads are just wet.
 i know but
 i see a squirrel out there running around like crazy.
 mhm
 is this an update or
 hmm?
 [inaudiable]
 [inaudiable]
 no im fine
 yeah
 [inaudiable]
 i told that kid last night that he looks like [name] and he goes who? i was like you actually dont know who the hell they are? he goes, uhh no. i said okay thats a good thing then.
 i know but he, i know. but he does he looks just like him. and i had this other guy come up to me the other night, last night and go; does that guy remind you of somebody? i said are you thinking of the same person im thinking he goes yeah [name] i said exactly [laughter].
 he works for uh [place] as well.
 yeah he works in a [place].
 nice kid. eh hes not really a kid hes twenty-seven.
 yeah hes about ten years younger than me so yup. he couldnt believe id be thirty-seven in february and im like really? whatever. i look every bit of my age if older.
 i know.
 [inaudiable]
 [inaudiable]
 oh
 [inaudiable]
 [inaudiable]
 aw man
 mhm
 [inaudiable]
 [inaudiable]
 [inaudiable]
 [inaudiable]
 [inaudiable] 
 i am but i mean but im not going to eat it now. [inaudiable]
 im not going to eat one right now though
 xxxx its cold
 [inaudiable]
 [inaudiable]
 mhm
 yeah
 [inaudiable]
 [inaudiable]
 twenty-nine
 did you see [name], [name] she here
 yeah. hes here and i cannot think of his fucking name. i cannot think of his name
 funny guy, dark-skinned, ugh i cant think of his name.
 who?
 yup. fifty-nine, xxxx
 one-fifty-nine [laughter]. i just told [name] because our whole team is shooting bad and i said um thats how we got we all go low scores so somebody is going to win the mystery and it was me.
 thats alright im ready now.
 yeah. i wanted to show you this. xxxx said we could go over there 
 and get free flu shots. thats all xxxx
 yeah
 xxxx they just went there to make sure they should be covered. xxxx
 he said they took his car over there and got xxxx
 wherever this place is at.
 wherever this place is at thats what he said.
 thats what he said. he took his car over there and got free flu shots. ill ask him again
 ill ask him
 [inaudiable]
 [inaudiable]
 [inaudible] how you doin?
 hey [name] let me get a [inaudible]
 alright thats good, cause ill get you back.
 oh, alright.
 what up, [name]
 how you doin?
 alright. hey, can you help me out with a dollar?
 [inaudible]
 thank you
 god bless you, maam
  ah the ceiling? 
 ive just always hated this thing. were leaving at nine-thirty.
 xxxx for [name]
 [inaudiable]
 oh you dont like?
 i sent you the message twice you didnt get it? 
 oh no, no, no, no, she didnt say are you guys boyfriend, she was , i was just like wow yeah i want to marry him this is the person i want to marry. she said uh yeah. she was sweating a little. but i just xxxx you know thats just something we both want and were both working toward. and then later um i was like oh my baby because i was calling xxxx , she said your baby? its too early to be calling xxxx another baby. she thought i was trying to call you. and im thinking uh-uh im telling you i want to marry somebody and then youre telling me its too soon to be calling him baby. and then this morning she saw this color that she likes, uh you can have this at your wedding oohhh. you frustrated me yesterday though. you frustrated me. huh? yesterday and yep im sure you know why it doesnt take a long time to figure out. huh? whatd you say? it was intentional you said so. your behavior was intentional. you said i have to wait to see some things, i dont like waiting. im the person that reads, i read the prop before i watch the movie. youre laughing. huh? about what?  not xxxx whoa, did you see those jets [name]? wow. that was kind of cool. huh? the what? the what? i dont know what you mean though. oh yeah, oh like air show? oh. hey [name] im going to just go in there and xxxx at her because this is ridiculous, ohhhh. its a, its  you, when i was just asking you what you like, youre like, theres just some things best seen in person, experienced in person. i mean yes. you told me you like toes, that you like feet. one more time? one more time? yeah. and you said, huh? what? its okay, thank you for liking me, im just telling you why i was a little frustrated thats all. we dont have to go down this road again. 
 mom what do you want to eat?
 [inaudiable]
 boiled rice? theres rice in the fridge.
 [inaudiable] which ones you want? [inaudiable]
 oh are you [inaudiable]
 watch out [name] is he a high-achieving student?
 hes a high achieving student?
 oh, oh you literally just left.
 mom i found a great coupon. 
 okay xxxx why are these ants so serious with it? mom youre right in here right?
 no
 [name]
 [name] am i selfish because i want [name] to be able to answer my call?
 thank you.
 [speech in different language]
 oh no but she had the other one
 [inaudiable] 
 [inaudiable]
 i literally dont know where my xxxx. i said i literally dont know where my xxxx. 
 uh-huh xxxx huh? am i xxxx it or eating it? i think so [laughter] [inaudiable]
 thats very nice. alright for now its still xxxx next month oh day care! because im assuming school gets out at some crazy time like three. 
 im assuming school lets out at like three oclock. 
 i didnt even think about it until i was texting you.
 huh?
 im sure that costs more money.
 i mean if they have a chinese thing that shes old enough for i would be fine with that, but i still cant pick her up.
  well i mean i can pick her up im sorry on thursday and friday, sorry.
 oh do you think shell be driving by the end of the year?
 okay she confident driving?
 oh, oh yeah she do.
 then shell start to work in january correct?
 oh okay but if she starts working before then what would we do?
 huh?
 uh where
 is there an opening?
 because she cant be like a teachers assistant right? thats like not using her
 oh, where
 if you dont mind my asking where will the baby and yall be?
 oh, oh i had not been to the new location where is that?
 oh so youve already checked it out?
 youve already checked it out?
 i though [name] was staying home until january
 oh okay so shes not working before january
 well yeah i hope she can come to the [location] i hope all of us can go to the two [location]. really the open house the wine and cheese is not a big deal to me. oh shoot. hello? hello?
 okay. do you know if she plans on going to the [location] parent events?
 oh, theres [inaudiable]  a mother as well.  i, like up to her if she wants to be, if her schedule allows you know postpartum if shes feeling up to it theres i dont have any concerns about my  xxxx for anything. 
 oh i, i spoken to her personally. i thought we had, if there was any question ever i thought i made it clear that even, i mean the first time i even talked
 would have by forty-seven xxxx
 its not for you.
 its not for you.
 really good
 only one black person xxxx its not even xxxx its not believable
 that
 [inaudiable]
 [inaudiable]
  hi, um, do you have dark board cabinets? 
 um, how many varieties do you have and what is the price range? 
 the one that has doors.
 oh, okay. 
 oh, okay.
 okay, and that is including the 25% off or not?
 okay, and then, um, itsyoure open until four, right?
 okay, im definitely going to come by to check them out today. thank you so much.
 okay, bye.
 what? alright, honey. ill see you later, okay?  can i have [inaudible]?  love you, baby girl. love you, baby girl. love you, baby girl. ill be back, okay? ill be back.
 hey, sweetie. what are you doing, taking a nap? 
 how was everything?
 yeah.
 quit. 
 i dont know. oh, the mirror fell. [name]!
 yeah, um, um.
 yeah, its all good.
 it went well.
 yeah. my [inaudible] froze before i was even able to start it, so
 it was not working so i had to restart the computer. and [name] has been calling me every hour and a half. he hasnt called in three hours so
 what are you doing, how do you feel from 1 to 7, how bad do you feel from 1 to 7, are you with anybody, um, so, yeah. 
 it sounds just like him, his name is [name] and it sounds just like him. its his lab. im assuming its him. like its, um, sounds like him so... i mean, ive talked to him before. 
 yeah, but, he doesnt know that i know that its his lab so
 i got new toothpaste.
 i actually got two of them.
 crest whitening.
 yeah?
 cool. 
 yep, thats why i got it.
 no its not. 
 nope.
 not that many.
 no.
 yeah, you would think so, right?
 yeah, all the non-fda approved
 yeah.
 im so hungry. 
 yeah.
 yeah, well see. my stomach is huge right now. im so bloated. 
 its fine, its, um kind of weird because it hurts here and there like a little bit.
 no, like, suddenly it will hurt real bad but it will last, like, two minutes then it will go away for the whole day. 
 nope, i have not. i honestly think its every time i do abs.
 yeah. 
 it just sucks. i hate that that happens.
 [inaudible]. i love that i can see it.
 oh, its okay. you can see it happening.
 i just [inaudible] your butt.
 thats like a dog. its like you guys have a dog.
 ew!
 dump it.
 did you see how nice they are? how gorgeous is that? [inaudible]
 dont turn off the candles. 
 its all the same.
 yay, alcohol. yay! 
 its got wine and vodka in it.
 they were really, um good.
 you want a xxxx coupon?
 yeah, i got a free offer for one. [inaudible]
 lets go, come on. come on, [name]. no, [name], come on. [inaudible], you stay inside.
 [name], want to go run? want to go on a run? want to go running? yeah? want to go on a run, honey? [dog making noises in background] want to go on a run? want to go on a run?
 ow, um. im going to [inaudible] and thats pretty exciting. okay, i know you have [inaudible], but you should be a little more interested.
 [inaudiable]
 you never said anything.
 [inaudible]this morning.
 [inaudiable]. its not [inaudible].
 that sounds, like, kind of [inaudible]. well, and tomorrow we [inaudible]. 
 thats cool. and i said well show them tomorrow where everything is.
 [inaudiable] i think i got burnt a little bit. look at my face. i should have fucking put tanning or i should of have put spf. do you see it?
 55. 
 a thirty minute run.
 i mean, its like 85 degrees. i mean, we havent been outside other than that. its really hot. i had to stop and try to catch my breath. i feel like i was completely [inaudible].
 she was tired, um.
 she kept going and trying to sniff out some [inaudible] but she never got it.
 oh please, look. i know. youre the cutest! she looked because i said oh. oh, um, so my mom and my sister got in a huge argument yesterday.
 yeah, and she called me today and she wants to [inaudible].
 she decided she didnt want to, so they were going to go to xxxx.
 yeah, she was like were not going and my sisters like why and she just didnt give her a reason. and she just, my sister told her
 and she called my sister like a million times, and my sisters like im not going to talk to you right now. like you need to stop calling me, what, why, you cant call, we were supposed to go out and you said no and you keep calling me, you know like what the fuck? [inaudible] my sister said she doesnt want to hear about [inaudible] anymore.
 no, my sister told my mom she goes
 she said she doesnt want to hear about [name] anymore. she doesnt want to hear about her cousins. so, apparently.i was
 iwell, i already [inaudible]. um, um, what was i going to say? i stopped.  i was like oh, you know what [inaudible] like the other day [inaudible] have you been? and um, shes like yeah, i heard about it. i told her that you guys, my sister told my mom that
 well, yeah they are inviting you, they are inviting her cousins [inaudible]
 but like, they dont know that, and im like [name], dont say that to dad because hell call me and yell at me. and its true, it, like, i told her friend right beside [inaudible].
 its not worth it, it is fine. and my sisters like i know, shes creating so many problems for no reason, like, we already told her were inviting [name]. so, boy problems, you know? shes fucking crazy.
 alright, im going to use the restroom real quick. 
 huh?
 well, i might have to [inaudible]
 these tables are really [inaudible]. youre so far from me. im like [inaudible]. its weird. were not going to move again.
 so, what food sounds good, babe? [inaudible]. what sounds good, babe?
 we can do two burgers. the burger [inaudible].
 we can do two burgers. what do you want to do? its up to you. its your birthday.
 everything sounds good to me except for the second one because i dont care for pulled chicken that much.
 i wonder if xxxx is cool or weird?
 the website is retarded.
 theres no information on it. its, um like from the 90s. actually the pace, xxxx website was better than that.
 look it up. im serious. yeah, you can use my phone.
 babe, theres no information. unless my phone wasnt refreshing every time i clicked on different links. 
 their beers have been really good at festivals, like, really good.
 well, we could just get one then.
 well, did you think that the xxxx website was better?
 what? yeah, but the information was not better than space jam because it has no information. xxxx had a lot of information. xxxx had the players names and their stats.
 maybe theyve got, like, five standards and one rotating or something. whoa, jesus!
 yes.
 really?
 what do you think of this town?
  i really feel like im in another state right now. 
 its very different.
 yeah, thats cool, i think id
 well, i dont know. 
 yeah.
 especially central.
 yeah, definitely. what?
 you were feeling your pants.
 hey, maybe we could stop at the market, um, if were not
 that way well just get it over with.
 i can also bake that cake tonight.
 oh. so i was thinking devils food, maybe? would devils food with the peanut butter go okay?
 boxed cake is just so much easier, because
 im not.
 its cheap. its cheaper and it comes out of the pan better. and its good. i mean the fun fetti was pretty good. are you not a fan of fun fetti or? 
 babe, lets stop and get a french-lick pie for you.
 yes.
 okay, fine. i promise ill make it, okay?
 i didnt forget your birthdays on the 26th.
 yes.
 thats our wedding.
 actually
 are you sure?
 [inaudiable]
 we should probably [inaudible].
 thats true.
 yeah. i want to get up early in the morning, drink coffee, and workout. thats what i want to do like every morning.
 it sounds fantastic to me to do that outside when im mad.
 [inaudiable]
 oh, no im going to, yeah just the squats i do.
 im going to do the [inaudible]
 lots of cardio.
 yeah. its not good for that [inaudible].
 and it, thatll make me dizzy babe. thatll scare the fish.
 yeah, itll make me nauseated with the water, like moving around.
 im, i might do an hour every day. why? it depends on what i want to do. some days i could do both. some days i could do intense cardio. some days i could do medium cardio. sweetie, you okay? 
 oh my god.
 i dont know what [inaudible].
 i think that was her daughter and i think she was a drug addict. [inaudible]
 i didnt hear them but the daughter was like screaming at her.
 yeah, oh my god, what is she doing? oh, um, um.
 shes a fucking drug addict.
 no, her!
 no, her! yeah.
 yeah! babe, she was like falling down, did you not see her?
 yeah!
 yeah.
 yeah! thats what it certainly feel like, babe, she was like, um, falling over. that is one hundred percent
 oh no, the maker of xxxx died.
 oh.
 for what?
 um, let see. um, i dont know. do you want a grill cover or some games?
 go away.
 oliver, oliver. oliver look at me. oliver.
 oh im not really watching it. its just, its just on because i hate being by myself.
 yup. you can change it i dont really care. if i knew you were going to be home i would have gotten you xxxx. but i asked you when are you coming home and you didnt answer me. 
 what are you watching?
 well, do you want um, i dont really know what xxxx. [name] you want some of these?
 sweet potato things.
 no? why not?
 okay. do you even know what they are? [inaudiable]
 im sore from yesterday. im not even kidding. like i wasnt like exaggerating when i was saying it was difficult. 
 no, what is this like a weird cheerleading movie. oh my
 oh my goodness he could of gotten a concussion.
 can you turn it down [name] i really am doing homework and i didnt have it this loud. thank you.
 in the dishwasher [talking to male in background]
 [name] has the rash.
 hmm
 right. so, [reading directions] yeah its saved.
 um. now i go to page 43
 [reading directions] okay i hit play [inaudiable; piano playing]
 we wont do a break there.
 you have mascara on your eye.
 so im going to turn it off, okay.
 here we go. im just going to keep xxxx
 thats impossible [laughter]
 sounds good.
 its okay.
 yeah
 mhm
 oh yeah.
 yeah
 yeah
 i understand
 its okay
 oh. sorry thats just
 thank you 
 four weeks
 mhm. i came in um after xxxx four weeks ago and then i waited i think it was a week and i came here and i dont remember who saw me, um but she said it was probably a virus and so she gave me xxxx pills to help with the coughing and then i waited because i thought okay if its a virus itll only take about you know maybe two weeks to get rid of it and then i was getting worse and the coughing was worse and then i, i realized that my xxxx was like a yellow-green, which i hadnt, i didnt know that when i got on the first time. and so theres a clinic at school i go to [school] and theres a clinic down at school and i went there, um and she gave me xxxx (medication) and so i took that for i think its like five days you take it um and at the end of that i still wasnt well and so um i know xxxx i dont normally like just take left-over antibiotics but my mom had an extra full xxxx that hadnt been used um and it wasnt out of date or anything so i took that one right after the first one. um and its been about three or four days since the end of that and im, im still not better, so.
 um im coughing 
 like a really xxxx cough
 and um i believe it gets worse at night
 i cant bring it xxxx i cant spit it out, like thats just nasty to me.
 yes, i am. i mean its very productive
 mm, i dont think so, no.
 mhm
 mhm
 um
 no.
 i, im really not
 yeah, yeah
 i mean id love to if that was the problem; theyre really not bothering me at all.
 i felt, i dont have a thermometer. i felt chilled and cold but i cant tell you exactly what my temperature was.
 so.
 im really tired.
  of course im a student, so.
 but uh saturday i slept in, i didnt wake up until twelve, which thats really late for me.
 no.
 shes really skinny
 awe. oh and all those nannies that fall in love with the dad need to stop.
 seriously like how many are they going to do?
 two? 
 oh what of those?
 well i can think of some other ones that are like that.
 no.
 no.
 theres a bunch of them i can think of at least three. xxxx yoga i think ids be fun.
 yoga
 i think itd be fun.
 [laughter] thats weird. oh she cant do anything. thats kind of sad. actually lives in a nice house for not being a pizza person or whatever.
 i was so tired when i talked to you last night.
 like if i wouldnt have told you i was going to call you back i wouldnt have even called i would have just went straight to bed.
 oh.
 [inaudiable]
 xxxx no you stay in here with me.
 xxxx look, see i would go back there xxxx. i think its funny that you have a beard all the way up to here and then it stops.
  its like you shave it from right here up.
 its cute that it stops right here.
 you havent hit puberty.
 oh.
 you always find people that workout but you, you dont ever do it.
 you dont workout with [name] you dont workout with uh, whats his name
 whats his name? uh
 [name] yeah.
 have i ever said anything?
 but i didnt 
 well, then why is [name] any different?
 whats this?
 have fun
 did you get uh did you get hand warmers yet?
 when you going to buy it? you might need to buy xxxx today
 how do you have no money left?
 then get some hand warmers. its winter, nows the time to get some hand warmers
 [inaudiable]
 oh okay. bit you are going to get them next week?
 okay.
 [inaudiable]
 i hope they dont run out. what about your feet?
 or if they xxxx about your feet. oh where they get xxxx and wet.
 okay. hey, leave the towel.
 uh-huh
 yeah, i got to wear it on me
 [cut off]
 [inaudiable]
 what time do you want up?
 i mean we dont have to go that early they have lunch until three. xxxx. hand me the remote and the tablet. xxxx 
 okay.
 okay well lets, lets discuss that then because youre not going to get much sleep, so. i mean
 eleven oclock?
 [on phone] hi. what are you doing? [laughter] nothing, i was applying for some focus group and talking to [name] earlier. i was so, i was so tired last night. because i stayed up real late talking to her and helping her with the baby. i was exhausted. hmm? um she went home, but she had to go to um an appointment at she had at the at trustees office. 
 [inaudiable] tell xxxx, mommas baby. watch out.
 the what?
 huh?
 i want my mom, i want my mom.
 okay. xxxx wants to grab our mail on the way. ill be back babies.
 ill be back guys. it was so nice out here today when i came out here with him.
 mhm. it was actually warm. this device is being recorded
 [answers phone] hi miss [name]. yeah. oh, okay, okay. when are they coming? oh, are theymhm. 
 we were leaving it was a short trip.
 did you have your ball batter with you by any chance?
 oh okay.
 [inaudiable]
 um i dont know. this is his only what, second week on here?
 hmm?
 yeah so i was calling the xxxx
 you know what. thatll be fifty dollars. 
 (talking on phone) hi i need want to go to extension fourteen please. um hi pastor [name]  um this is [name] and i made an appointment with you at eleven oclock next tuesday on the ninth and i was having to change that because they just told us wednesday evening when i went in that um were going through new training monday through thursday during the day from 10
 [inaudiable]
 [inaudiable] is that twenty-three right?
 yeah
 [inaudiable]
 ive got one i just hate putting it in let me see it
 yeah i do, yeah. ive got a dollar forty-nine. okay.
 ive never noticed. xxxx
 i sure do. so what price?
 okay. oh thats a name-card holder.
 yeah
 i need one
 cause im kind of tired of that. thats what, like twenty-eight xxxx. i hadnt even thought of buying one. thats going to be forty. xxxx there you go.
 okay.
 hello okay.
 well
 well yeah i dont know if this will work or not.
 um make that xxxx ive never been over here so ill try it. you can stay here i can see if this will work, will it work?
 oh, its not going to
  okay. yeah ill go on and sign on there then. yeah xxxx if i do that. ill run to the restroom while you do that.  [uses restroom]
 did we have xxxx on saturday?
 you know xxxx
 yeah im over here now. 
 youve got to; you get your book fair?
 oh, no.
 yeah weve got these like xxxx i dont know where the other two girls are so.
 might want to track that xxxx
 [inaudiable] so i wont have to keep um. lets see ninety, eight, eleven, nine. they said they normally dont  um think about their xxxx just whatever it is its their extra you know a little bit of extra  cause you know it fluctuates that what [name] told me when i was out there smoking yesterday. said it fluctuates xxxx
 (on phone) hello? hi sir my name is [name] and im calling from the [place] is mr. and mrs. [name] there? uh hi sir how are you this afternoon? well thats great, im calling because youre a customer of ours and i wanted to let you know that your credit or debit card declined this month because you have a new card possibly and get your, just wanted to get your account updated to avoid any disruption in your delivery service. um do you want to go ahead and get that updated today? oh im sorry yes, you can do that online or you can call our customer service department and get that updated. okay sir, thank you, bye (end of phone call). [inaudiable] lord have mercy.
 yeah i know ten-thirty to two-thirty. xxxx going to cut our hours by five hours next week. i mean four hours, cause thats only four hours, isnt it?
 no thats four hours, eleven uh, ten-thirty, thats just four hours. 
 yeah thats four hours. so our shift is going to be four hours short. cause friday will be coming our regular hours they said four-nine, yeah. uh-uh cause eleven-thirty, twelve-thirty, one-thirty, two-thirty thats four hours.
 yeah thats what im saying though. you see what im saying. one hours elevn-thirty, twelve-thirty, one-thirty, two-thirty. thats only four hours. so we come in at ten-thirty, then eleven-thirty, twelve-thirty, one-thirty, two-thirty. yeah, four. oh, look who made it. we didnt think you were coming in.
 oh, wow
 yeah
 right right.
 yeah
 it is. its so much stress and different things you know.
 everyday dealings
 i still got three.
 yeah.
 mhm
 i dont either.
 i dont either because i would have taken it fifteen minutes ago.
 yeah.
 yeah
 right.
 and mine changes from day-to-day you noticed that?
 yeah theyve changed from day-to-day the break time. did yours do that?
 yeah mine switched too.
 yeah thats happened to me a few times too. [inaudiable]
 mhm.
 right.
 right.
 why?
 yeah, yeah.
 yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. [inaudiable]
 yeah youre right.
 yeah.
 well yeah i like xxxx
 mhm
 yeah
 yup.
 are you?
  yeah thats what i do i take about ten or its about time to get back.
 why?
 yeah
 yeah 
 yeah
 yeah i know
  yeah i like the other better because you dont have to dig through it.
 yeah i do too. you can get it a little cheaper over there because they weigh it.
 well im getting back ill see ya.
 bubye 
 (on phone) oh im sorry to hear that. right, yeah were trying to get those updated. right. to update it, thats why im calling. uh huh. were trying to stop you from having any delivery service problems, you know any disruptions in that and i need to uh update, im sorry confirm uh your address. is that [address]. do you have a um [name] do you have a um email address you would like to share with us? oh okay. well everybody doesnt have them. right i understand, okay. and will this be visa or mastercard or? sure, okay i can wait. right. yeah. yeah. oh okay, uh-huh. right i understand, yeah. okay, and you said its a mastercard you believe? oh, okay. yes, yes. and get it updated, yes. yeah because if you dont get that updated with your creditors whatll happen itll decline, yes, yes. okay, so. i hope you get to feeling better. oh, okay. oh, oh yeah im sorry to hear that. what do you, what did you say you have? oh, okay. what do you have? did you say was wrong. oh you had phenomena, okay. oh, okay. okay maam and im ready for the number. uh-huh, okay and expiration date? okay. okay. and whats that three digit code on the back of that card? okay. okay maam well youre all updated and i do thank you for taking the time with us to update and thanks for being a customer and you have a good uh evening. right. yes i understand im by myself too. okay. yeah.
 yes
 ooh cool, nice
 yeah, absolutely. have they set the tabl ike who is seated where?
 yeah. im looking forward to that, thats going to be fun
 hello!
 yeah you are good to go
 alright ill see you then. and so at that is that when the outstanding student awards are given out
 the outstanding student award?
 ok
 do they give one per program, is that what it is?
 ok
 ok
 oh! yeah,thats not good
 hello!
 maybe if i saw their face
 okay. sounds good
 oh, are these the ones from the other day? 
 ok so they are just like, they are getting it for next semester
 which is umm what is that? cause there is three in fall [end of rec]
 you are welcome have a good day
 record. whats going on man. well, like, it records, like the sound surround and um[inaudible]
 no, i guess- i guess not i mean it says on the thing, whatever. 
 it was through my psychology class, we had to participate in research. but i had already hit my 2 like credit like mark or whatever so after that um like not all of them are paid but this one was and i qualified for the second portion. and so then i agreed to the even the at home part of the thing where i give like um saliva samples. yeah, yeah. beause something theres definitely in your saliva that will um like its and endorphin or whatever that you can tra- track through your saliva that shows like stress levels
 if they do thatd be sweet, but yeah.. a super power would be nice though. it would be a [inaudible]
 you know what im doing. so i have to do this for two days
 yeah yeah and i have to [inaudible] and answer everytime it pops up with a bark, and its called, the app is called paco and its got a dog on it. and so it would pop up and i have to answer it [inaudible] as the stress im under [inaudible] stuff like that. 
 so im stressed out
 just checking. rent. 
 thank you
 i was going to try to pull in um to see what transferred um but its acting weird and um james is not available right now so um if you want more of those details um definitely schedule an appointment
 ok excellent
 so james or whoever you are meeting with can um go over in detail on that um do you have like any specific questions about the cj program or..?
 um you can just sign up for those classes um like you dont have to necessarily be in the school um so thats something um that you [end of recording]
 i have a vote for him
 oh really. yeah
 yeah, yeah seriously. specially those- those points right on there as you can really trip people off. and its stupid because they are different classes and why does it matter. [inaudible] i guess
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 oh wait. thats what up. he [inaudible]
 what?
 yeah tell her that was one wait. we picked the same guy
 i picked [name], [name] and then [name]
 was it that girl?
 and i kept to the male facilities so i was like
 is that b?
 basically i try to figure out like what they are saying
 yeah like what they are talking about. but my thing in [inaudible] talk anything about [inaudible]
 i mean one might talk about overcrowding
 congrats on the [inaudible] by the way
 congrats on the [inaudible]
 thank you
 yeah
 oh she is?
 i dont know, 
 i dont know, if you want to ask..
 heres the thing. if [name] does want [inaudible] then like you could get in the masters and she could be student counselor. because [inaudible] both [name] and i wont be here
 well the good thing is no matter what position you are in theres no like
 yeah and i get that but like at least this year you know it may change or something but like we really didnt care what the titles were
 so yeah it looks good, you know, but as long.. heres the thing as long as you show that you were in a leadership position it doesnt matter whether you are president, secretary or vice president none of that matters it just matters that you were in a leadership position in a student organization
 but i see what you are saying you want to be president
 no
 the special thing is serving your people
 and you can use it, if you are in a leadership position you can use it to get [inaudible]
 yeah?
 yeah [inaudible] dont kill yourself
 yeah i [inaudible] work team, kicked my ass so
 [inaudible]  actually leaving, like some are senior but they are doing a grad program something like that
 you staying in media[inaudible]
 yeah we can get it but well find [inaudible]
 who did you have?
 im about to work
 dont what me. how far are you?
 who?
 that wasnt my aunt
 [inaudible]
 its dirty.
 i got um my laptop [inaudible]
 a spare tire
 no, [inaudible] i dont know what you are talking about.
 [inaudible]
 no
 [inaudible]
 ok
 i need that on 9 
 i know [inaudible] famous girl [inaudible] last night
 i guess. neil you took a picture with her
 we got a red pair and a 12 [inaudible]
 you need the blue can with it. you got the blue can?
 [inaudible]
 ok thats good. i was asking because we have the deal you can get this one, the orange can, and sneaker balls for 9.99. you can have
 you can have two cans but its up to you. you want to do it?
 [inaudible] i can look you up what is your [inaudible] time?
 just one second
 um ok so when we got the shoes that nobody likes. so say somebody came and asked me for that one [inaudible] i wont bring it out
 i mean it takes two seconds to look online
 say what color?
 i mean what i recommend like if you are still stuck on that shoe just go online you can google find that shit online probably not at like [inaudible] check at like foot locker. it has your heart set on it dont [inaudible]  
 you are a 6 so you need a 4
 what about you?
 um well anything else i can offer you. we got socks buy one get one free, the nike socks, buy one get one free. we got shoe [inaudible] and stuff also
 with the box, the box all three are in there?
 yeah we have this kit like so for ten bucks you get the waterproof, the cleaner and sneaker ball all [inaudible] for ten bucks
 so basically [inaudible] now that you have already taken that one but its a good deal. and its still going i think after this week. each sneaker ball like basically what you do, you untwist it and it gets out the odor on shoes, gym bags, closet whatever each one last you up to 6 months then you got to use the [inaudible] 
 waterproof spray on hats, on jackets, shoes its got [inaudible], its a liquid repellant so if you spill something on it, you get caught in the rain, step on a puddle it wont mess up the material and it wont get your feet wet
 you got it
 good night, sir [inaudible] night?
 ok
 i didnt know that
 alright three one
 [inaudible] two seconds
 [inaudible] we aint got it man because he was busy [inaudible] you can tell him 
 buy it. 
 buy it. 
 ok now is bad news, we lost it its not where its supposed to be, i checked all the other areas
 yep, castleton
 not sure
 no problem
 nah we good we good
 what about him?
 hey
 you need anything?
 [inaudible] same shoe?
 [inaudible]
 good night sir
 [inaudible] i have been working on our cleaning kit, have you had- er tried out our cleaning kit yet? alright so basically youll get the cleaners, the waterproof and sneaker balls all for ten bucks. its a deal we got going on just for the weekend um i recommend it for those specially because the blue part on here is a little [inaudible] get those wet and could mess it up
 yeah the cleaner is for like the white on the shoes, the waterproof you spray the whole shoe with, its like a liquid repellant so any type of liquid you get on there is not going to mess up your shoes, is going to run right off, instead of sticking to it
 water can mess this part up
 yeah so what it is.. ill show you how it works. you got time?
 alright
 are you trying to do me a favor? can you do me a favor, nevermind i got this right here. 
 you got a water bottle, little bottle of water
 why we aint got none of the like water spray bottle [inaudible]
 thanks. whos been messing with the cleaner kits things. im trying to show a dude how this works and we got not[inaudible]

 you can get all three of them in the pack. like it would be this, the cleaner, and the sneaker ball so what you do is you spray this on the whole shoe
 yeah so [inaudible] the whole shoe [inaudible] this is water so this would be like any type of liquid, or whatever remember i sprayed it in the middle. see how it sticks outside, the water that i sprayed there just sits there. thats what it would do with the shoe, instead of sinking in [inaudible]
 yeah so if you dont get the waterproof if it rains outside like after a while it might start to getting a little fuzzy, you might see like the color start to fade. with that, it keeps the water from messing up so therefore the color wont be [inaudible] anything to worry about
 yeah you spray it on shoes, jackets hats whatever
 did you want- do you want to get it? 
 you want to get the whole kit, the whole kit comes with this, the cleaner and the two pairs of sneaker balls all for ten bucks
 alright, ill get you a new one
 i know [inaudible] still recommend this, this is 6 bucks, this is ten bucks, four more bucks and you get a whole [inaudible] this by itself is 6 bucks
 yeah its just to clean. like you get a [inaudible] mess up your shoes, spray it on, wipe it off and they are coming right off
 [inaudible] shoes for you
 what do you mean? on the printer? i got more
 do you have a card? [inaudible] over there
 [inaudible]
 you too
 i got all the 12cs we had, like thats not jordans we have in that size [inaudible]
 yeah
 we mostly got jordans in 12c like other than that is just [inaudible]
 nothing for yourself today? 
 cleaner kit on sale is 10 bucks
 alright [inaudible]
 [inaudible] hello chief
 what color? 
 mhm [inaudible] hey you said you printed up? alright
 i got these shoes im trying to get rid of
 he dont want them [inaudible] ive never worn them
 you guys alright
 kid
 ok hey [name] right here
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]college. where you go to college at?
 [inaudible] its windy like really bad out there
 alright so this, size 6 is that biggest size they had on this one
 yeah i got that 9 for you
 alright
 you alright ladies? 
 you alright, sir?
 from the bottom three
 ok what size of shoe?
 nine. [inaudible] kids so first section right here. you see where the flip-flops are. right to the right, that first section, the top [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible] seven thats for kids [inaudible] so that top row, those two
 um what the difference is with sizes so like say like you are 8 in womens what you do is substract two numbers and that would be you in kids 
 yeah they will stop at 7
 no they stop at 7
 yeah
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 alright you need some more time?
 mhm i mean i some [inaudible] too. its just how they are, they are really comfortable, i like them
 you want to [inaudible]
 alright now seeing that i have these shoes im going to recommend them for you. we have these cleaners, its a kit, those get dirty pretty quick so 
 yeah and the cleaners youll get the shoe cleaner, which you just spray on the white part, on the white [inaudible] and dirt comes right off
 it comes with waterproof, which you just spray the shoe down and like rain or anything wont mess it up and your feet wont get wet when you go outside 
 and it also comes with sneaker balls, you put them in and it makes your shoe smell good
 all that for ten bucks 
 and i recommend it for those shoes
 no no i have had these for a while
 yeah i just get mine like i dont know if you [inaudible] i keep mine in [inaudible] 
 so if you are the same way its fine
 alright im going to [inaudible] 
 whats up my man [inaudible]
 alright so itll be this
 ok
 [inaudible] so this one would be the one that prevents water from messing it up, and this is the one you clean your shoes off with and with these you just put them in your shoes and it gets rid of the odor
 yeah thats what its made for
 yeah
 ok you said seven and a half?
 what do you think? you alright?
 alright well if you need anything else just let me know. no problem
 yeah what sizes?
 ill check for you
 no problem
 [inaudible] they will open it for you
 alright if we do you want me to bring both of them out?
 excuse me, sir. you ladies are alright?
 neil has it
 are they paying on card?
 [inaudible]
 im an aries. mine is in two weeks. alright [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 yeah just im going to have one of them. im send one of them your way
 [inaudible] you say what? [inaudible]
 [inaudible] having a wingman
 for [inaudible]
 for [inaudible]
 yeah [inaudible] bow on the hat?
 yeah
 yeah, what he said nine? i thought he said nine and a half