
o in detail? how much time do i have?
o i can start?
just can start; let me calm for a second! okay, the earliest memories i have are probably from when i was about 3 or 4 years old being in my first home that i grew up in it was (address) and i clearly remember the layout of the house and the basement, and i remember waking up from a cabinet where i fell asleep, running around with my neighbors, i lived there until i was the age of six, i have a lot of memories of that house. then moving to my current home my parents home (address) i remember growing up there, going to elementary school, attending elementary school, kindergarten lets see what else i can remember, i remember my neighbors, something significant i guess i remember being called (name) which is i go by now which is not my name i guess this what it came from, i remember a tree that got hit by lighting when i was 4, lets see, (pause) 
kay i have a lot of young memories from the time when i visited grandparents house (address),i remember their home, they lived in a duplex i remember my grandfather lived in a basement, home videos helped me recall certain things, after that elementary school that first time i remember, having a hat wearing every day, eating square pizza for lunch, sitting with the same four people every day , a girl (name) and girls mom, sitting in an alphabet order, remember having the biggest crush on this girl (name) who we are friends now, and we talk all the time, we would eat pizza all the time, and i would get chocolate milk. i had a couple of friends, white kids who would run around and play, lets see, i have been always late for everything and this continued. firs in fourth grade same, same friends two white (names), running around being little kids, nothing significant that i can remember. my mom used to work at that time during the days; she was a nurse, working at sixth floor surgery (hospital name). we used to have baby sitters russian workers form my dads restaurant he went to college in ukraine, i remember going to these peoples house address), and stay with them and dont remember their names, i remember the lady with these two old people he lady had short hair supper russian, and then i had big fat old lady 8 hundred pound supper old russian lady who we called grandma in russian, i spoke russian until i was 5 now i know like few words. so we would have these baby sitters through elementary school, i was always causing trouble, my dad would give the look and we would know we were in trouble, my brother was a year and half younger, and sister would play always play 
y sister is four years younger, my brother got older so i started playing with him, through elementary school and i would play a lot, my brother got older and started to play with him, i would get in troubles in the grocery store, i would play imaginary games. fourth grade i was sad, for switching schools, i remember crying i was switching from traditional school to year round school, i remember talking to my mom about it, i cant imagine dealing with me as a child, i remember talking with her screaming and yelling about it, i remember the first day of school fifth grade remember i was 10 or 11 i was nervous super so nervous, we had to wear uniforms so we would wear white, blue, green, or color shirts and kaki or blue pantss, we had to wear belts, and i hated the stupid shirts they made me buy, i walked in the class, i remember the classroom, the classroom after that i saw a little kid that i went to school before, a little  indian boy i became immediate friend that i knew from first grade, that was fun.
remember having many more friends in this school than i did in the pervious school, and lunch break was fun.  we would play soccer. soccer filed was large, and ten of us would play, that is when i realized i was good in soccer and played to travel, and got in their team, fifth grade i remember a lot i made many friends that i am still friends with them now, i remember lunch, the lunch was always damn long, and i remember class a lot, i remember not doing my homework a lot, another thing that persisted lets see what else happened in the fifth grade, i remember my english teacher (name), lets see what else happened in the fifth grade, at the time at home i stopped playing with my sister, i kind of being shut her a little bit, something that i dont like myself for doing, she gained a lot of weight later years of the elementary school, she developed some type of disorder that we didnt know what it was now they call it (some sort of disorder) spectrum disorder, i dont know i think she clown now, at that time i was trying to fit in, so i dont know i think she is hilarious now, i tried to fit in,
dont know, from fifth grade to middle school i kind of dishonored at that time my sister something i am upset about, my brother was a little chunky too, he would bring snacks, he was bringing extra butter popcorn for his snack and he probably put 40 pounds, it was funny to see this fat kid to emerge, but he grew out of that after probably toward the end of middle school, my parents at that time i remember, we were done with baby sitters one cause i have gone a little bit old, and two we had. my dad was really involved, my parents were refugees from (country), my dad has always been involved in (his) community, and at that time his cousin this lady and her two children came over they have been living in germany for twenty years, and her husband passed away i dont remember from what, so when they came to states they stayed with us, so i remember picking them up from the airport, and we came home and we would  watch simpsons, the simpsons was always on, and other random things that come on local tv that i laugh about today, saturday morning cartoons were great, i remember them living with us, their daughter was attending high school at that time, she is probably 6 or 7 years older than me, yeah six years maybe,  
o she was going to pike high school, she was very smart and hardworking, and she would take care of us and we would give her such a hard time, i  would always mess with her, so here i am like  11 year old kid and she is hardly speaking english and is trying to go to school in america and i am just trying to bother her every single day, since her room was right next to mine, and i would mess with her when she is in the shower.  i would mess with her when she is trying to get ready for school, and mess with her all day, but i thought it was so funny. she would get off school before we would so she would watch us when we get off bus, she would always make disgusting potatoes, she didnt know how to cook anything, we would ask her to make food us, and she would make these fries that she called them potatoes she didnt know any english,  we did not have any baby sisters because she would watch us, she stayed with us for 6 month, i was 12 years old i was older enough, some other cousin of mine started to watching us, cause if my little brother needed to be watched. 
t that time also, one of my another family came over like six months later, my uncle and his wife with his five children they came from (country) four children and one already was living here. they were living there, and one of the boys was my age and his name was (name), and he and i became friends quick, and we would cause troubles, and i remember they moved to this apartment, first they lived across the street, so we were there all time, i remember my cousin didnt speak english and we taught him the worst words, he is great, and my cousin (name) was fighting with neighbors kids in my neighborhood, and we would fight with (name) it must been hell to deal with us as a child, we would talk shit and run away, and i remember through childhood i always had older cousin who is a couple of years older than me, so he and i are closer now, (name) he always messed with me hard, he was the oldest in our little age group, but he is an idiot, so i dont know, he had an older brother, so he probably experienced to tell people what to do, 
o he would always bothered everybody when we were over his house and stuff like that, and i remember him like instigating these fights between my cousin and i , so we all were cousin we would have fun, but they got serious, so we were in the middle school, but it got to we would play, and we would fight in every family gathering. i remember we would fight at every family gathering, first we  would go , i remember it started  so we would go went to (name) community gatherings with (name) association of indian, which i kind of run now, which is kind of confusing, so we would go, and there was concrete platform area, so we would set there and we would go and we had nothing to do, so we fight a lot,  i remember fighting a lot in streets with other kids, i remember playing street hockey and fight with all these white kids, but i never fought my family or anything, except for little cousin that i mess with, passing it along,  but i remember he would talk and he is saying something about my mom, he said something about his aunt what is he talking about and then we would we start pushing each other, i remember the first time and everything swung oh shit we needed to fight now, so we did and we fought for a year and half, and it got fun and we got into it, so it went to the time we would see each other and we talk shit, it was fun until it was about we wouldnt hang out, until about 8th grade he was 510 and i stopped, and done fighting i grew really late, i was 5 2 when i started high school. (00:22:02)
we stopped ganging out, i played soccer through middle school, high school was not fun, the school was much smaller, it was a year round school, and the teachers, they were 300 students, we would split into team, i did not have many friends, i remember the end of sixth grade, i dont know what happened but one day i told myself to be cool, and i did that and talked to people and i went out of my way to talk to girls, i remember making a friend with a girl (name) who was fucking giant , and i remember calling another girl ( name) and we would talk on the phone for hours, and then first i made friends with girls and then made friends with guys, and this why i made friends with guys because they thought i know all these girls, i made a friend with (name) who we took the same bus, i would take my bike to his house during the end of sixth grade, and we would hang out, and his brother was in a high school, (name) would look up at his brother as if he was (god), and he would appear in times and we thought that was cool, we thought we are blacks, to clear things up i thought i was black until last week, but yeah, but growing up my schools have been well diverse. 
6/25/14 
then traditional school was diverse, and year round school was pretty much diverse, growing up in little ghetto apartments and i had so much fun, and we thought we were black.  we grew up in a theme place, and we started to make a lot of friends, in middle school, and i started to playing soccer, and i started playing at organized team, and i am still small and really skinny but i would pass ball really well, but i stopped playing toward high school, which is a bad decision, but i hanged out with my friends a lot, and i started playing instruments maybe at 7th grade, and i played , now i am cool i am causing trouble all the time, now i am completely out of control. i got maximum suspension in the school for five days, so we went home. and we would do dump things on computer, we made t-shirt for kinds called aristotle tapped and ironed on t-shirts we thought it was cool. and put some other random things in there, i dont know how it progressed, i remember going late in school and printed a lot of them, and we put them everywhere, and we would put them in every locker, and we posted them everywhere in school, and i remember the next day i was in the bus while my friend was not there, and i started to freak out, right as i entered the building, this teacher came up, old african american who came up with piece of paper, is this yours? and i was like no, i dont know what it is, he was looking at me and he is i know it is you, and i am looking at him and i was like i know you know. and i continued the day; i was in geometry class, we were 15 or 20 of us, my friends who were smart, my friend (name) was an athlete, and he was just on his desk and his was down cracking, and everyone was looking at us, and we got caught in the second period, we had two teacher who we got a long with, we were talking to them, they are laughing too, and there was these two serious teachers who came in and started to yelling at us, about slavery, and we were like what are you talking about so we were in big trouble, and we were walking to the office. she made us to make a public apology in front of the whole class, and it was so funny. 00:38:48 
6/26/14
we made these apologies on the podium, and we thought it was fun and it was fun, i dont know, we had to apology to (name) and (name) that we did not mean to make fun of them, but we made street credit after that. we had five major classes, sociology, science, math, english, social studies, and foreign language, and two electives, one rotation and other is a music class, i was in orchestra,.  i made friend with this kid (name) this dude was the weirdest dude ever, so keep in my mind i am 5 foot tall, so we would go around and be cool, he and him we would compete the whole time, because i was good in the athlete, despite the fact he was twice my size, so we would kept friends. i remember (name) part, he is foreign from (country) that is why we got along really well, we grew up in similar dynamic, we always get yelled at, we dont care, (name) had 7th grade birthday, we were down at his basement, his brother would get out the music, and his friend with big black t-shirt on him, so we were all in the basement.
remember this guy hooking up with a girl upstairs that was the most disgusting thing ever. there was no alcohol, or drugs this was the 7th grade, and we did not have rich family to steal alcohol.  and this was guy (name) and we brought this girl, and asked her to dance for him objectively this would seem stupid, and he thought we were the coolest and that we were awesome. so this guy (name), and other friend (name), we would hang around with no plans, his parents are kind of second parents for me. so a lot of people would go to private school, other would go to pike high school, a lot of kids in my class, the smart one went to private school. so (name) and (name) friends would move, so i was going to lose them and i was nervous. the incoming class at pike high school was big about 900 people, and i had to walk to soccer because i missed the summer training doing whatever i want, everyone was getting ready, and i wasnt doing any of that. my friends would drag me to the soccer to play, dude i dont want to play, and they are like dude you have to play. i remember the first time of class, sitting in this stupid computer class, and they were doing attendance, there is something stupid about people who transfer to private school would remain in public school, so i was sick hearing their name get called and they werent here. 
o i remember there was this advanced class with same people i know about 15 of us, and i was relieved but i felt sad, because i didnt really fit. i knew some kids but i did not make friends with the cool kids. i remember when i was sophomore kids are already drinking. being raised in a muslim family there was no hard liquor at all. so high school was weird for me, i made friends with these kids in the high school, i was being introduced to people, and i wasnt used to that, so i was becoming shy again. so this is how the first year went. i know this my cousin (name) who i fought with all the time i wanted to be friends again but i didnt to get beat up. i remember going to his house and visit my uncle who didnt speak english and he would tell stories about my great uncles, about being young and clowning all around. so we would hear stories, i thought the stories were the coolest, so i remember going to his house, and we would listen to stories, and just hang around and he had two siblings older than him, one was older, three that lived with him. others were close to our age, like five years, but none of them were there around that time, so i would just ask what you doing later, and he would be like nothing, so i would say so do u want to come over? so he has his dad and afterwards. so he slept at my house, and we had the best time, and we became best friends, and this was bad. because we were in the same place, and we didnt know how to approach the pike high school and how we would grow up, and we started to mess rounds pretty yearly, i dont remember how old i was 13 or 14, but i was still small, so we would steal my parents car, and we would drive around for no reason, i remember we would eggs and house around, so, we would go around doing this dump shit, so all started 8th grade, freshman year mostly, so i was hanging around with my cousin who is 2 years older than me, so he is in high school now, and, so he is in the 8th grade, so he was already sophomore, so we started to hang around more because he had car and that was awesome, he played tennis, and he would take us around, and we were really dump shit, and we would yell at people on street for no reason, it was so funny, but i sure remember this guy i never forget, we were driving, and we were on bridge, and there was a puddle, this is when i knew i wasnt a good person, we were driving, and we looked down,  and yelling, and we splashed all the water on this homeless dude, and he yells something something, it he got this really this haunch bag, and i think we ruined his life, but i was dying laughing. (name) would take us around to parties, we were freshmen, there werent his parties, there were our parties, me and (name) friend we would hang around every weekend, you know, just like no worrying about.. 
00:59:00
8/15/14
right we would have (name) pick you up, it didnt matter we would have the car, drive around carmel and pickup (name), so we would go high school parties, and clown, but still sober all of us, but we would have a good time. we would go and get in trouble,, like we.. this was hilarious summer between(8) we all peed in water bottle, i dont know why anyone would hear these stories.
do not.
right, so, as far back as i can remember, growing up in a i grew up in [city]. earliest thing i can remember is living close to the hospital. both my mom, [name], and my biological father, [name], um, we, theyre big pharmacists, so, and that stuff is big in their life, and when i came in the world, i was their pride and joy, um. i was their first ever child. they were still relatively young, so its great to have that, and plus i had grandparents who, first ever grandparents at that, so they were very excited that i was here. as far as i can remember, i do remember um, going to the preschool along there. um, i cannot remember too much in detail other than where it is, but from there it was fine. i had friends. i went to, went to [elementary school]. um, we relocated to um, closer to a new home where my grandfather was a house builder, so he had a new subdivision, so we um, we built a new home there. and from there, seemed to be pretty good. 
had a normal childhood. i had plenty of friends, played baseball, played soccer, um, just about anything you could imagine early um, childhood. but things kind of went down fall after um, [date] was the night that my father lost his life. he had um, he had problems later we found out with um, a pharmacist. he was abusing pharmaceutical drugs. so later we found out he passed away from um, committing suicide. so from there it was different. it was different for my mother, grandparents, myself, probably more so for my mother because she wanted me to have a life without a father, so she had to be his role and her own role, but we were blessed with the opportunity of having grandparents very close, relatives, close friends to help us along the way, help me feel im not missing anybody. so, year passed on, things still going on. i had boy scouts, um, help with that, doing a lot, hanging out with my grandparents a lot, probably more so than any other um, child would ever dream of in their childhood. then in [year] my mom met a man named [name] who later on became my father. then [year] they get married. [year], i had my biggest dream. i got, had a little brother, little [name], little [name], little kid. so, then, years, so we had the first year all good. then, i remember the day going home, um, from i believe it was from the grocery store, my mom got a phone call from her job at [company]. um, she was on the phone, um, call in the car for about a good half hour until we got, until we pulled into the home. she ran inside and, um, when she came out to get me she was bawling her eyes out because later i found out that um, she had to relocate. we had to leave, um everybody from [city], and start a new life either in [city] or in [city] and, luck of the draw, we got [city]. so it was hard for all of us. we had to relocate not only our lives but our chapters, so, leave our family, too, which is hard since we were all, lived xxxx close to each other. 
o we moved to [city]. we decided to build a new home in [city, state], but between [city] and [city], still a relatively small and new area, so time being then we lived in a small apartment. um, two bedroom with three people and two dogs, or four people and two dogs in a little apartment for that three, four months while the house was built. so definitely too close for comfort with um, how compacted we all were, so we got to know each other pretty well, more than we expected. so we moved to this new house, start a new um, started a new school life in [middle school], seventh and eighth grade. best part is, um, that first weekend i made a bunch of new friends of which, one of which is um, still here today, and that is mr [name]. [name] and me get along very, very well, so we always bicker. we always fight with each other, but xxxx. so, things are good from seventh, eighth grade. um, started playing football in eighth grade. its my first ever major sport i played outside of um, [city]. um, its granted me, made great new friends. we still talk today. even though we dont go to the same school we still communicate very, very well. 
um about towards beginning of freshman year, well of course, this is a major change for everybody. its a new change of scenery. everybodys not top dog anymore. youre a little bottom of the food chain as far as school goes. um, football, another thing. but um, at home things are a little rough. um, [name] and [name] are not getting along very, very well, so i had very, i constant hear fights at least once or twice a week. um, dad, either dad or mom will storm out of the house, just fed up and not want to deal with it anymore. so then that blues junior year, um, during summer that mom pulled the xxxx on the room and said, um, [name], [name], were not happy with each other anymore, so we decided to get a divorce, which is hard for mom because this is her second husband that she has had in, my lifetime at least. so thats rough. um, of course i have friends who have had the same experience so they are easily able to cope with me and help me along with the hardship, so i was blessed with that. so then course junior, um, senior year happens. i apply to [university]. i find out the next month i get, i get, um, approved to go in, which is awesome because we were all worried that if i xxxx going to go to [university] or [university] or xxxx. this was i can get equal, um, medium. 
o then, um, everything goes, has, um, rugby senior year as well. its a new sport. its very, very hard but great fun. and thats, and i got to say that last game of rugby was my that was the only time i every started any sport in high school. always, um, always freshman, jv, varsity football, i was always second string or never played. then when um, one of our players um, was a little banged up, um, coach um, [name] said um, hey, [name], i want start, um for the game, which, thats amazing for me. ok, so thats summer. so then, um, since i have no more football that summer, um, mom, learns to take me on a graduation trip which turned out to be to a european cruise ship. so we went to um, oslo, norway which is where our ancestry is from.  we stayed there for two days, um, lot of fun. we hopped on a cruise ship. it went to dublin, ireland, went to the guinness brewery, went to paris. we once stopped on um, stopped into, i think was bordeaux or some little port, took a bus up to paris for a couple hours and came back. fun story there, we um got lost in paris and almost missed our bus coming back. mom resumed plan b while i was panicking, saying, were not, were in a different country, no idea where we are. thats fun. but then we went to um, liverpool, england. um, went to normandy, france on the way back. that was very, very cool, very touching to see in the beaches and where everything went down, so, kind of sad but remorseful. um, so then that summer, um, funny thing is to, um, when we get back, on the funny or ironic, when we get back from the trip, ma finds out that her position at [company] is no longer there anymore, so fun thing for her. well, fortunately, because she has a um, she is a pharmacist and has a very, very high degree of um, education, she was able to find a job very, very quickly, and um, um, so it worked out pretty ok. 
o then of course, um, freshman year of college, just like freshman year high school, its totally new. its i got to say its not as bad as i thought it was going to be. like, its always high school, you go from class to class, go home. same kind of deal here, its just [university] is more of a commuter school. i dont have the same experience as um, most colleges which can be a curse and a blessing, more time studying, less time partying and not doing school, go from there. so coming to school, i was going to do um, motorsport engineering. i decided that because ive always been a big fan of racing and cars and all the fun stuff there, so i figured might as well make this as a living. so i did um, took some engineering courses in high school, which kind of gave me a baby, little baby spoon of um, what to expect. later, actually i found out sophomore year, i decided to change majors because that was a little beyond my grasp. the, um math was a little too hard. i guess just doing bare minimum math in high school was not going to cut it. so then i decided to do um, do, sport, um, um, management because i later found out from a friend that um, shes doing some motorsports stuff too, that um, i can still, she can, you can still be involved with the racing, just involved with the pr, the marketing, a little more behind the scenes kind of thing. so, here i am in junior year realizing that its not fun anymore. its, the management stuff is boring. later find out that if you dont know anybody in the motorsport world by this point youre as good as not even bothering coming in. so, fortunately this semester, this semester i took a class, um, psychology um, with um, dr [name] and the stuff there. later find out that this stuff is actually a lot of fun. um all the medical stuff, um all the biological stuff, the human body, my senses, everything just clicked. i just, i guess growing up with um, parents who knew pharmacy and knew the body like the back of their hand was something that was meant for me.  so later decided, um, after a semester, i will go on to do neuroscience, and hopefully um, work in a, work on, in a hospital, doing some research like this, or later on going on to do um, to get my, um doctorate, to be a doctor, dr [name], and carry on the tradition of um, my parents.
unny thing is my last two years have almost categorized in every single one of those things you just said. (laughs.)
just kind of break it down as, um, as short and sweet.
um, as far as friendship goes, relationship goes, i had a good friend and um, i met through my other friend, um [name]. her name was [name]. her and me really met, we met very well. we kind of clicked and realized that, hey, i think were something a little more um here. but, um, sad thing is um, with her being her work and her school, and i go to [university] and my work, we never really saw each other. i guess we kind of, we were separate. and sad, really sad thing um, i guess on my part would be, i find out from her friend that she was seeing another guy behind my back. um, and when i confronted her, saying, why are you doing this? she of course played none the wiser and said nothing was going on, and i find out that um, theyve talking for the last two months behind my back and her back. so, i guess i dont know who to trust anymore other than my other friends. but, anyway, so thats my love, thats my love life. (laughs.) but other than that, um, i would say during hardship of my mom was transitioning from one job to the next job, in comes a little, um it was a little low, considering we had a relatively large family. she was a single mom for right now, had me and my, me and my brother. um, so i had to rely on my part time job at [company], for, id been working there for the last two years, but that was a little hard because i was making pretty low income and working very little hours because compared to what i had for school, when i had to work i could only do so much, and at some points i had to borrow money through her just for, pay for gas, go to school because my income was just barely covering, um, my cars insurance and my cars payment. so i have little money, little money for myself, for food, for gas, so i had to borrow her, which i am incredibly blessed that she was able to help me out. um, as far as major stress goes, of course school, the big um, conundrum of thinking about either changing majors from motorsports engineering to um, sports management, from sports management to now possibly neuroscience, so and, thinking xxxx the class i had was accounting. first class i had was a200 because the advisor said i should go in there. i should be fine. i dropped that class first week because i realized that this is incredibly hard. this numbers and math and accounting just doesnt click. so, i dropped that class very quickly and then i talked to the advisor again. she said, um, um, she advised me taking a100, the intro level class, so i at least get an idea of how to do it. and which that was last semester i had to drop that, or even this semester i had to drop that class because still wouldnt click that, just accounting and numbers just arent my thing. then, problem was, like, i had to take that class um, and pass that class because it was part of my, was part of my, um my xxxx um, requirement. so were thinking that do i really want to do this? do i really want to put myself up with dealing with stuff i dont even like doing? or have to deal classes that are by no means, um, relative to my course? so, made my rethink my life twice about what i want to do for school. then, as far as losing family members, um, i did lose my great grandmother this past um, february. she was fairly old, um, very getting dimensional, and it was just her time to go. and it was really um hard for not only me, but my grandmother and my mother because they were all very close, and my um great grandmother even told my mother and grandmother that i was a special one because i was the first um, great grand, great grandchild and its always a special place in there. so, and very, very, very, very sad is um, just the day before she died um, my mom advised or texted me telling her i should call her. shes in the hospital right now and tell my goodbyes. and when i did, um, um, my great grandmother, my grandmother put her on the phone and when she said um, my name, she smiled which means that she knows everythings ok. so, it was sad but shes in a better place now, and shes back with her, my great grandfather, great grandfather and um, i couldnt be more happy than that. 
yeah. (laughs.)
would say deep down, i wanted to just um, give up, cry, and just basically become a hermit and stay inside and not deal with any problems thrown at me. but, with this happened past two years, i think its made me a lot more harder individual. um, i deal with problems um, more on a daily basis now and not fazed by them when i take them on head on. if any relationship or friend problems pop up, i say, look, youre there, you messed up, lets move on. im not going to deal with this. im not. im too old for this. the fact that im, ill be 21 the next couple days, xxxx these two years really shows my maturity that, um. i even heard too, from a friend that even though im either 18, 19, 20 years, i act like im 20, 30, 40 years old. so along with that, um, mentally, id say even though it seems pretty hard the more experience i experience the more hard and more deep down ill become. 
the fact that i was failing my courses before i go and do sports management. um, all the courses i was doing um, ive never, ever failed a class in my whole entire career from um, even from kindergarten to high school. and after i felt the stress, like this is going to hurt me, and this is way worse than getting an f in high school. this is real life.  i fail a class. i fail at life. so i felt the stress that um, what am i going to do from now? should i change my life? what, um is my life going to be from here on out? um, whats my parents, what are my parents going to say? and just go from there, so ive, thats probably the biggest distress i have to say ive had in my life.
just the lack of, just, the having the idea, having the ideal of im still in high school, that its just nothing. ill do better on the next test. ill do better on the next assignment. ill do better and better. and i guess this mentality just brought me to, brought me down to where im falling behind, that im not catching up. i wasnt doing the online classes, wasnt doing the labs. that, um it will just be better. it will, that, tomorrow, its tomorrow. ill be better. ill um, procrastinate.
which is college is a big no no so that brought me down.
well, along with a big talk with um, my parents of if i dont, if i dont pick up my slack, um, im out, im out of the house. hugging the sap requirements. um, satisfactory for school from my financial aid. get a big letter from them saying um, if you dont keep up, were dropping your financial aid, were dropping your health, dropping your help. and so it was more of external factors of striving me to do better. and i also have to do a little soul searching and talking to myself saying, look, do i want to keep doing this? i dont want to keep doing this. i want to something else ill be more happier doing than this xxxx from here.
would say if i were to do at the level i am right now in this term of my age, ill say my father passing away if he were, if he were still alive at this point and him dying this past period that would probably be equivalent if not more distress than i would feel right now.
ure.
ay as far as work functioning goes, just the way that um, the, that the retail kind of environment goes, things had to be the same. because i had to have the smile. i really couldnt um, hide away, um, to um, do um, my own thing or just wanting to work because if i dont want to work, i could easily call in but because of um, too high of a level they, um.  ill say they rely a little too much, i dont want to say they rely too much on me, but just the fact that i am such a hard worker and i, um, do a lot there, that its just, its they will know something is wrong if i dont do that. and, or i, the lack of thereof not going to work or not working. so i feel, i kind of decide that um, things didnt really change because i had to keep my work face on. i had to keep my happy face on, and i had to keep doing my job without um, too much interference.
would say between equally in terms between stayed the same, and um, if not a little bit closer because my friends. the sad thing is too, my friends had their own lives, especially [name] and [name] and my old friend [name] at that point. um, guess we kind of, we kind of lost touch and i guess losing connectivity with my friends um, made me realize that this is not right. im not, i cant do this on my own. i need sports and talking with them, hanging out with them a little more and doing more interactions with them made me just a lot closer. so, that not only made more id say a curse and a blessing more reliable on them if not more reliable on me. so
um, there was definitely some changing. it made it a lot more um, hard on me that if i dont do something right, its um, my fault, no one elses fault.  and that really occurred too, especially with school, the whole flunking and failing and everything that its no ones fault. its all mine. and i had so long, that um, that soul searching about what um, i want to do, its more how do i want to do it. so i figured um, be a lot more involved with school, do more um, work, actually dedicate time to do these things, dedicate time for myself, not only for social life, but for school life, for home life. so along with that, id say it made me better to multitask, better to um, find the correct needs, find the um, dedicate the needs and kind of go from there.
probably a bad thing, it made me realize that, look, i messed up, onto the next one. so i, this idea still stuck with me that um, if i um, messed up or had one bad thing happen at school, bad grade or bad test, or with home or a big fight with my parents or with work a customer gets very, very upset with me. i figure just, look, move on and it will be better tomorrow. onto the next one and just kind of forget about it.
t made more so other people control my life. that, i realize that i um, am not the center of my universe. i am, i am just a grand stand in this world called life. especially with my parents, um i realized that i um, cant control myself. they are the ones that um, honor. as far as um long as im living in there i just have to say i am their, i am their control. like, whether like, need help with the chores, help to take care of my little brothers. my new, my new um, stepbrothers and sisters coming into my life, too. um, its made me more realize that i am not myself, or i am not the heart of my world. i am a benefactor.
would say along with me being more hard centered i think pretty, um, controlled, um nothing out of the ordinary. i just felt like im pretty, um solid stuff.
um, it can vary because my very, very close friends, they know me that if something is wrong theyll know something is wrong with me. other people like other coworkers and new friends and public, too, um, they may take and say, oh are you ok? is something wrong? and ill say, no, thats just the kind of mood im in right now. its nothing. me not you. its just the way i am.  so, i say the close, close friends if i, they know me that whatever face i have on its just normal. other friends, other family that if im a little edgy its just the way i kind of am.
um, back to the parents again, um, saying that um, that they, that um, um, i was going say that they have gone so far in um, their school and their life that um, i should probably try to mirror them more. they recommend that i try to mirror, um um, them then, so that way um, i become more of a hardened individual. but with friends though, its a little tougher because im the only one in my close friend group thats actually still going to school. um, my friend [name] um, he just had a child this past, um, this past holiday, so hes a parent now. hes, was going to school, he had to drop that because he had life come up, relationship problems, all that. um [name] another close friend, shes, um, she has a good job but she was doing school for two semesters but she dropped out because she just didnt see the full benefit of it. and i well um, i tried to tell her, i tried, my mom tried to tell her that look, you need to go to school because you will get a better job but shes just not wired that way to do that.
um, um, in the long run id like to see myself um, finish up school of course, um, get my um, neuroscience degree, possibly do master, possibly get doctorate and be a doctor of that, but with the way things are if i ever get too far ahead, i lose sight of whats happening right now, which possibly happened with um, the, um whole downside of school that so for that answer i want to say i will boldly look ahead and see the future, but i really want to take things one day at a time, one week at a time and see where life goes. 
okay well the story of my lifei was born in xxx (town name).  my two parents worked and owned a restaurant and i had an older brother.  he was 10 years older than i was and apparently he brought me to show and tell like a couple weeks after i was born so thats interesting i guess.  i was born in a very small town.  we have like a theater and a bowling alley and that is like the only things to do.  a lot of people hang out at walmart a lot; its kind of weird.  i mean i started school when i was 5 like most people did, went to kindergarten.  it was a public school, fairly small class size in general like 100 people in my class which isnt tiny but its sort of small.  when i was younger, i got picked on a lot so in elementary school i was kind of a jerk just as retaliation i guess.  i got good grades and everything so i didnt really have to worry there but i didnt have a lot of friends.
we went on a lot of vacations when i was younger.  we went to florida and went to like disney land or disney world, whichever one that is.  then when i got into like junior high, like 6th through 8th, my brother was starting college i think and so we didnt have as much money anymore.  my dad had heart surgery and so after that he kind of retired because he really couldnt work hard anymore so we didnt have as much money to take vacations but we still did every once in a while.  i still made perfect grades and i was starting to not be a jerk anymore i guess.  i was kind of figuring out like hey maybe try to be nice to people and maybe itll help.  i still didnt really have a lot of friends.  i didnt really date anybody, just the good grades like i said.  then i got to high school and my parents were pretty broke at that point so we didnt really do a lot of vacations or anything.
n though my dad was at home most of the time like my mom was always working so we didnt have time to do anything anyway.  as far as grades go, i made awesome grades then too, never had any trouble in my classes.  at that point, i was making a lot of friends so theres that.  i dated a lot of people at the time until my senior year.  oh also i was involved in sports before i go onto that but during football practice i got hurt.  i hurt my shoulder and it never healed correctly and so i cant really do sports anymore.  then i started dating this girl and now were more or less engaged, not exactly i guess but thats kind of the idea.  i applied for xxx (college name).  i managed to get a scholarship thats really helping out.  my grandparents are helping out and thats kind of how were paying for that and im making good grades and i guess thats everything.  
ection ii
the past two years there were probably two instances.  one was more recent.  my girlfriend and iwe were having a little bit of trouble just because its more long distance now and so it was just kind of hard but we worked through it.  for a while it was kind of stressful just because we were stressing each other out and ourselves out but its not really a problem anymore.  then my senior year i actuallyshewe got pregnant, i guess and that was really stressful.  i mean i was happy but i mean im sure everyone could understand why that would be hard but i guess she kind of had a miscarriage and so we dont have a baby now but that was just a really stressful time.  it kind of distracted me from everything else for a while and as far as stressful and frustrated i guess thats pretty much it.
well i was pretty worried and stressed out all the time like after that everything i did felt like i was doing it for this baby instead of for me or even for her.  my family was poor and so was hers so we didnt really have a way like especially to pay for college and to help take care of this baby and i didnt know where we would live cause i would want to take care of it and i was just stressed all the time like everything else just kind of like i couldnt handle anything else.  my grades dropped a little like i was still trying really hard cause i had to get into college and i had to get scholarships but like that just became my priority and friendships i didnt have time for them anymore and like i just felt bad about myself because i didnt feel like i was doing everything i could or if i was handling the situation well and i was mad at myself for getting into the situation and not having a way to really i guess take care of the situation so i was just mad at myself all the time so i guess thats just kind of how i felt just stressed and angry.
no i mean when i was younger i didnt really have friends or anything so i was kind of stressed about that but that was a completely different kind and that was probably my most stressful time was then.
well i mean me.  i feel like just the situation itself was my fault and just feeling bad about the situation was still my fault like just being irresponsible on its own was the reason the situation was going on but not being able to handle it like the way i did was all on me too.  it didnt have to be stressful.  its just i stressed myself out about it so much that it just kind of was.  i dont know if that answers your question.
i just kind of did i guess like after everything was overwell i stressed out about it so much that i cared about everything that was going to happen and then of course it just didnt happen and that on its own was very stressful but like it just kind of balanced out i guess.  the stress of it happening and then the stress of it not happening just kind of collided and i just stopped being stressed afterwards.  i just felt like it kind of worked out i guess in an awful kind of way and i just kind of forced myself to be okay with the situation like i just had to accept it.
i definitely can.  i mean if something happened to my family or to my girlfriend then id be way stressed out.  i dont know how i would handle that situation.  i mean that was bad but that wasnt the worst that could happen.
ection iii: change
well i dont want to say that anything has really changed.  its more just the reasons like before i was working hard just for this and i was trying hard and just stressing out over this but i dont want to say that its changed my performance or anything too much just because im still stressing out over that kind of thing and still working hard for that.  its just now its for the future and not for the present i guess.  i mean the only thing thats really changed maybe would be like my social life.  before i felt guilty like having friends or doing something that wasnt i guess important but now i feel a lot better about just going and having fun i guess.  it just seems more okay.
i feel like my girlfriend and i like we went through a lot at that time and i dont feel like our relationship has changed really like we still care about each other just as much and maybe even more.  my familymy relationships with them arent any different except maybe with my mom.  i mean at the time shes really the only one who knew about it and i guess that just kind of brought me closer to her sort of.  i guess she felt more like a person and less like a mom after that and like i said my friendsi just didnt really want them or pay attention to them anymore but now i feel like friends are more important.  i can focus on them and i dont have to be stressed out all the time so i feel like ive just gotten my friends back and made more since then.
i feel like i probably feel more responsible a lot of the time like just my actions mean something.  i felt that way before but not to this extent i guess and im more serious about a lot of things that i never used to be serious about like i dont like dead baby jokes anymore like i used to with my friends but other than that i dont feel like ive changed a whole lot.  i still like the same things.  i still act like an idiot around the people i care about and for the most part i didnt really change a lot.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  whats stayed the same?  whats different?
as far as actual ability to think about things, i dont know if its really affected a whole lot like im still good at puzzles and things like that hasnt really changed.  maybe the way i look at some things like as far as moral decisions but not so much like actual like puzzles and things.  i dont know if thats really changed at all.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?
well it was my main priority like nothing else mattered anymore except for that and so i guess it was in complete control at the time.  even now it still kind of affects me so i guess it still kind of has a little control over my life but i dont think it had too many lasting things.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time of crisis?
i mean fairly well.  when i was around people, i wasnt like freaking out or worried or nervous or at least not on the outside so i mean i guess i controlled it well enough for that.  no one knew anything was going on but when i was at home i was just stressed and in my mind i was just stressed and i couldnt really handle it very well in that sense so i guess i could handle it fairly well.
like i said i dont think they were really affected that much.  i mean maybe my friends since i stopped coming around them that much but other than that most people didnt really know anything was wrong.
i mean a lot of the times its just more stress.  i mean my mom was really supportive and of course me and my girlfriend were working through it together but other people who didnt really know it was going on didnt really help.  if anything it just made me feel worse to see them like not caring about stuff so much like they would go out and party and waste money and i dont know it would just make me jealous and make me worried and so like i dont know if thats an answer.
i guess everything was resolved as much as i hate to say that kind of thing so i mean for the future ive done nothing but learn from the experience so i feel like im better off for it in a way so like everything looks fine from here.  my future looks pretty good.  i dont really have to worry about it.  it just gave me experience and now i know what to do for certain things.
the earliest i can remember is when it was just me and my mom before she met my stepdad and then every other weekend i would go to my dads house so i was like 7 when she met my stepdad so before that it was just us and our trailer.  we lived there for 5 years and then eventually she met my stepdad, moved into his house, so i had to switch schools.  i got two step brothers when they got married and then she had another kid, so a little sister, and then my dad got married to my stepmom who had two kids so i had a stepsister and a stepbrother there and they had a kid so another sister so i went from an only child at 7 to by the time i was 9 i had 6 siblings.  so that was a big adjustment.  then when i was in 7th grade my stepbrothers, in my moms house, mom died so they ended up living with us full time and that was kind of a big adjustment cause they were only there every other weekend.
then after that there really wasnt much of a difference.  we moved to xxx (town name) from xxx (town name) so we moved like 20 minutes away so really the drive to high school was a little longer but other than that nothing really.  then after i graduated high school and came to xxx (college name) so it was my first on my own experience.  i had my own apartment, had to like get my own job.  it wasnt my first job but a job i actually had to pay for stuff with and just a big adjustment.  i think thats it.
ection ii
i guess i didnt do well in my chemistry class last semester and that made me doubt myself and stuff.  i didnt necessarily have a mental breakdown or anything but it made me rethink like my life and everything.
i just got i guess you could say got cocky like oh i know the material so i didnt study for any of the exams and i did poorly on all of them and with the curve i ended up passing but without the curve i would have had an f so im retaking that class but my friends went through a lot last semester too so i was there for them too so i couldnt focus completely on the chemistry so thats kind of what happened.  i just felt like a failure i guess because in high school i was like a straight a student and i didnt get nothing but as, graduated with a 3.9, academic honors, number 4 in my class, and it was just weird to not do well at something i guess so i just self-doubt was the main psychological thing.
i justyeah like i said i just self-doubted like i contemplated everything cause i want to be a doctor and like if i cant pass general chemistry then can i really make it through med school.  it made me think about myself and analyze myself a lot more than i ever had before.
no i dont think so.  i had a pretty easy going life up until last semester.  well i guess im in genetics right now and thats kind of stressful, not quite as bad but its definitely close.
yeah college definitely is when all my stresses hit.
i dont know for sure.  i guess like cause first semester i had one chemistry and i barely missed any points in there and im like oh it cant be that hard and then in class it was a lot easier than the tests were like impossible.  they were so hard so i guess that had a lot to do with it like if i can do it in class then i can do it on the test.  well that wasnt true.
well i talked to my academic advisors a lot, like 3 or 4 times within the semester and he told me that it was okay if i wanted to retake it or if i wanted to keep the credit cause it ended up being a c and i just decided to retake it and i have like an a in it right now so i dont really know.  it makes me kind of mad that if i would have just tried a little harder last semester then i wouldnt be in this position.  
yeah probably.  i dont necessarily know like any examples but i have harder classes to come so i can definitely be there again.
ection iii: change
i guess towards the end i started trying a lot harder like doing more practice with the stuff, going to like exam jams they call them where they review a lot more, pay more attention in class, took better notes, but other than that not too much changed.  i guess when my friend, she had a boyfriend of like 2 years break up with her, so like that was like in recovery where i was helping her or whatever through that time and stuff so that changed i guess.  that wasnt necessarily anything academically but personally that stuff changed.  i just had to be more sensitive and more of a friend i guess.
i actually didnt even have a job so i didnt work my first year of college.
during that time period, with family nothing really changed.  i just felt like i was letting my parents down a little bit maybe but then i talked to them about it and they told me they were fine with it cause no matter what i did ive done more than what they have with their life cause neither of my parents went to college so im the first person so they were proud of me no matter what.  friendswe just got a lot closer like we had a pretty big group of friends and its down to a few more but i live with two of my friends now and then right now actually the girl going through the breakup is at my apartment waiting for me to leave so were definitely a lot closer.  were almost like family i guess you could say.  i think of them like brothers and sisters.
i guess if anything i got more sympathetic and like as able to tell if my friends were having an off day or were upset about something.  we just got close enough to where i could tell by the way they walked into the room if they were upset or if they were extremely happy or something so i guess i got more perceptive with understanding peoples actions and stuff and i dont know.  i guess they help me be more studious towards the end cause they werent doing well in the class either.  we all had the same class so it just helped me be more perceptive i guess.  
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  did anything with that change in regards to this class?
i hated chemistry a lot more *laughs* but other than that i mean i just thought my thinking changed to where i went into recovery mode where i had to do the best i could possibly do to get my grade up but other than feeling wise i had more self-doubt.  i didnt think i could do it or something but other than that not really.  i stayed pretty calm through all of it.  it takes a lot to really upset me.
yeah i do cause like i said i have like an a in the class now like i understand it.  im doing well on the exams and stuff and its just like everything happened at once and i fell behind.  it just builds off from what you learn from the fundamentals and i just didnt have a good fundamental grasp so i lost everything to follow it.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that experience with the chemistry class control your life?
i mean it obviously decided where i had to be like on tuesdays and thursdays at a certain time but other than that i had to make sure i was doing enough work each week, having my homework done, make sure i spent the whole week before it studying like nonstop so i guess it was just taking up a good chunk of time.
yeah i thought about it like every night when i was laying down in bed to go to bed like should i be going to bed or should i be studying?  is it smart for me to get sleep or should i pull an all-nighter and get as much studying as i possibly can done?  but i guess i dont know.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your emotional state during that time?  were you more emotional than usual or just the same?
i would actually say i was less emotional like all i thought about was getting that grad e up so everything else like didnt matter.  all i wanted to do was get that grade up.
i went through withdrawal of emotions.
no like i said really it only brought us friends closer so i mean they were also in that class.  they were struggling to and some of them did worse than i did but in the long run we just became closer.
i mean i was obviously feeling self-doubt but they helped me realize that its okay and mistakes are made and you can always do something to try to fix them so i guess thats what im doing now with retaking the class and stuff.
i dont know like thats a tough question.  i think about that a lot like i dont know anymore.  i consideredlike i dont want to change my major or anything and i still want to go pre-med but i guess i still have that self-doubt to like i wont be able to get into med school even so like i think about back up plans a lot more and ive considered changing my major so like if i graduate with a biology degree its kind of hard to do something other than research with biology and im kind of an extrovert type person and research would kill me so i guess its just made me think about what i want to do with my life a lot more.
i was born here in xxx (city name) in 1994 with my parents and we lived here til i was about 2.  i dont remember any of it but we moved up to xxx (town name) and we lived there forever in that house.  i went to xxx (catholic school name) grade school, the catholic school, and i got first communion.  i got confirmed and we lived there for a while.  theres no direct like high school to xxx (catholic school name) so we had to decide.  my dad was a teacher at xxx (high school name) so he had to decide then if i was going to go to school with him or go to xxx (catholic high school name) and be with my friends, and i really wanted to go to xxx (catholic high school name) and be with my friends but it made more sense to go to xxx (high school name) so my parents, my brother and i ended up moving there my freshman year.
was nervous about going there since i didnt have any friends but the summer before there i played basketball with them so i got to know the guys, some friends.  i made friends with them and i played football freshman year and thats how i met most of my friends through high school was through basketball.  i was upset there for a while, really upset that i was going to xxx (high school name) instead of xxx (catholic high school name) but eventually i got over it cause i liked our new house and it was bigger.  i liked everyone at xxx (high school name).  in high school, i played basketball all four years and was mvp senior year and after that i decided to go to college.  i came here to xxx (college name) and im trying to be a doctor now.  im a biology major and yeah. 
ection ii
the most stressful thing the last few years has definitely been genetics this past semester actually.  last year, first semester i had a really high gpa then second semester it wasnt quite high enough to keep my standing in the honors college so im on probation and in all my other classes right now i have as and one b but im doing really bad in genetics and so it was going to cause me to lose my scholarship and thats just been hard on me all semester cause i did really well in high school and got like three bs in high school and ive done really well in college so far and it just really stresses me out that im failing a class that im just really struggling in.  i did bad on the first exam so i studied more for the second one and did a little better but still did very poor.  that caused me a lot of stress, had me freaking out.  
n cried in class once cause i was so stressed out and i talked to my advisor about it and she suggested dropping it but im waiting to seewe took a test on tuesday, which this last weekend was terrible cause i had chemistry and a genetics test on tuesday which are the two classes im doing the worst in and so this weekend was just studying nonstop.  i didnt do well in chemistry since i studied way more for genetics cause i was stressing about it but now im pretty sure im going to talk to my parents and my advisor and im just going to drop genetics and ill still be full time and ill keep my scholarship so im feeling a lot better now after i decided to drop it and not having to stress about it. 
i was constantly worried and stressed and all i could think about was the class and trying to do better and everyone like i was letting down and stuff and my parents and costing them money if i lost the scholarship and then worrying about trying to get into med school still if i did poorly in this class.  just stressing about all that and worrying about taking out student loans and being in debt for school.  that caused me most of the stress and caused me to cry that one time in class.  i really feel like it even caused like some heart problems and stuff so i should actually go to the doctor for that but im feeling a lot better now after deciding to drop it.
this is definitely the most stressful by far.  i never was really stressed in high school cause everything was pretty easy like i got along well with all my coaches and friends and stuff so i never really like had any stress until this semester, really.
one is just theres a ton of material to go over and the books huge and ive never had to try to learn this much information for a class and it just is hard and theres a lot of stuff and i hate blaming the teacher but shes just not the best teacher ive ever had by far.  everyone ive talked to in the class thinks the same but its actually her last semester teaching genetics cause ive talked to her about it and i think just with her not being the best with telling me what to study and there being so much to study and then stressing out, putting more pressure on myself during the test kind of psyched me out during it.  i think all thats contributed to me doing poorly in there.
ince i dropped it, ive been like a lot happier.  ive been hanging out with my friends and stuff, kind of hanging out with them, playing more video games, and relaxing and then more time out.  ill go to the gym and work it out so even relieving stress that way, just hanging out.
i think it would be even worse if i had lost like a loved one or someone really close to me but itd have to be something really hard like that.  besides this, i really dont get stressed out or get too distressed easily.
ection iii: change
its kind of changed like how i look at classes and how like i study and stuff cause i kind of changed my study habits in general and ive done better in other classes more than that one so just changing how i study like that.  ive gotten a lot better at trying to manage my time, having to deal with having to really study for this class and still balancing out my friends and stuff.  i still do hang out with my friends and stuff a lot so its not too different but it makes me kind of question too like how med schools going to go if i can get into it and stuff and maybe what else i want to do with life if i dont get into med school.   
no i havent been working.  im going to start volunteering though.
i think im closer to my friends cause i mean they all know about it and i talk to them about it and they try to help me through it and then with my family nothings really changed cause i havent talked to them about it until just this last week so they didnt really know about it but its nice for them to worry and stuff to kind of show like they care for me cause ive been really stressing out.  
its stayed the same but i have expressed my feelings and emotions more cause i usually keep it inside and dont show it but ive definitely shown it more that ive been stressed and upset in class.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  whats stayed the same?  whats different?
i found out im actually not quite as smart as i thought and actually was doing poorly in the class, just kind of thought about what i want to do with life now especially like with classes that are difficult like this and what i should do but on the bright side i have expressed my emotions more to my friends and been more open to it.  i still kind of think the same that just this class is worrying me.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that class control your life?
it was definitely the only thing i could think about was this class, just constantly worrying that im going to lose my scholarship and everything because of it and having to spend more time like away from my friends.  instead of doing fun stuff, id spend more time reading or watching the lectures and it just kept me from going out and having fun and stuff cause i was so worried or focused about it that i didnt take the time to relax.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during this time?
for the most part id say pretty well.  this one day after like really talking to my advisor and like really hearing like im losing my scholarship i really kind of freaked out then that im going to lose it and im going to have to go get loans and everything and started worrying about future semesters but that was one day that was really bad and occasionally i felt really upset about it for the most part but pretty okay with it.
my friends especially have been stressed out from me when they see me stressed about it but theyre just upset sometimes and they dont always get to hang out with me cause im sitting there studying for it.  my family hasnt had the time cause i didnt tell them until recently but they were really stressed out when i told them how stressed id gotten and how like it was the first time ive really been stressed and just hearing how stressed i was.  they were just nervous for me and making sure i was okay.  
they made me feel better cause theyd try to like talk me up and encourage me.  they tried to help me study and do things in general to make me feel better about myself or about the class and in general try to bring me up.
feeling happier and stuff, not having this class to worry about and i think too ill be able to spend more time on other classes and ill be fine and like ill get off probation for next semester and i have a better idea of how to like study for classes now after struggling with this one cause i had started to do better but its too late.  i think itll definitely help me with my others classes and hopefully i still can get in med school and go from there.
well the furthest back i can remember would probably be kindergarten, first grade.  i know i was born in xxx (town name).  we stayed my first year of life in xxx (town name), and that was where my dad grew up.  my mom grew up at a town just outside of there.  they moved to xxx (town name) and he got a job on the southwest side, just to be close to work so i spent uh lets see the first 9 years of my life, pretty much from 1 to 9, in xxx (town name), indiana.  thats where uh i dont really remember a lot about when we lived in xxx (town name) but i do remember things vaguely.  most of the time i need to be reminded of a lot of things from that time but i do remember when we moved to xxx (town name), indiana.  i was 10 years old, or i was just about to turn 10.  it was 1986.  i really liked it when we moved down there cause it was kind of a rural area.
we moved to about 5 and  acres of land, had a barn and a bunch of other stuff; creek behind the back part of the property.  i spent a lot of time outside playing in the creek and looking for stuff in the water, just kind of meandering around.  mywell my older sister didnt really like the move much but i think that kind of was because she was going to be starting high school that year so she had to move kind of at a bad time.  my middle sistershe was pretty much okay with it.  i never had a problem with it at all.  like i said now i dont really remember too much from when we lived in xxx (town name) so i went to xxx (high school name) in xxx (town name), indiana.  it was i think a consolidated school, like two different townships across three counties, so it was pretty rural so we didnt have a lot of students so we pretty much knew everybody.
n when you were in middle school, you knew a lot of high schoolers because it was just a small school.  i was a pretty well behaved child and stuff in school until about 7th or 8th grade when i kind of got a rebellious disposition so i didnt really do major things but i was kind of disruptive in class and used to talk a lot and not really respect my teachers.  that kind of continued into the first couple years of high school but i originallythe first time i ever got medicated for any type of mental illness would probably be, and i was never really any definite diagnosis at that time, but i was about 11 years old and i think i was in 5th grade.  i was down a lot.  i really wouldnt spend time, doing much of anything with family.  i would go to sleep for many hours after school and then get up for a couple hours and then go back to sleep, didnt really feel like going to school.
would end up a lot of times crying, begging my mom not to let me go to school so she ended up taking me to the pediatrician.  they ended up prescribing me a medication for a short period of time and it wasnt really anything thought about it until it was my first semester of my sophomore year in high school.  i pretty much didnt show up for school, skipped school a lot, ended up getting expelled that semester for absences and tardies so at that point my mom was like weve got to figure out whether youre just a bad kid or whether theres something else going on so we went back to the doctor, you know, ended up seeing a psychiatrist.  they end up prescribing me medication.  i think it was elavil.  i took elavil for the last two years of high school and my last two years of high school i was pretty well behaved for like 95% of the time.
nded up gettingsee i had a problem with grades before.  i flunked pretty much everything.  at the end of my sophomorelets see yeahend of my sophomore year i think i had like a 0.6 or 0.7 gpa.  i mean i was just a flunkie i guess and so i started taking elavil.  i kind of got uh more structured i guess or motivated to do well so my last two years of high school i ended up getting all as and bs.  the problem was is that in order for me to graduate on time i had to take a lot of correspondence courses.  i had to take like three night courses, take enough credits and i graduated with the minimum amount; 40 credits.  at that time it was just 40 credits and i graduated with 40 credits and it was up in the air whether i would graduate on time up until the last week so but i think the medication had a lot to do with me being motivated enough to finish that.
hortly after high school, i kind of quit taking medication.  i guess i just didnt really feel i needed it.  i ended up moving in with my girlfriend at the time.  i think we started seeing each other my junior year or into my sophomore year.  she was a junior and when i graduated i ended up moving in with her at her dads house.  her parents were divorced and we lived together for i dont know a couple years.  we ended up having our first child xxx (first name).  we stayed there an additional couple years.  it was kind ofwe bought things for the house like things wed need later on.  he kind of allowed us to live there rent free so it gave us the opportunity to kind of collect things for when we finally got our own place.  i think xxx (first name) was 3 and  or so when we moved to xxx (town name), where we actually live now.  that was in 2000.  we moved there because i ended up getting a job in xxx (town name) so it would have been like a 40 minute drive to work from where we lived at xxx (neighborhood name) so we ended up moving.
did want to live in town in xxx (town name) and i didnt want to live in xxx (town name).  it was just growing up in the country i just wasnt real keen on the like crampedness of a bunch of people so moving into a subdivision in xxx (town name).  the neighbors were pretty close but when we moved it in was a pretty quiet area.  since then, in the last 10 years, its blown up in southern xxx (county name) so theres a lot more people there than when we first moved in.  i moved in there because the schools were fairly small for the area.  i think it was a 2 or 3a class football school, which was sort of similar to what xxx (high school name) was so it was a good area but since then weve journeyed on to i think were 5a now.  weve got like a 2200 student enrollment in high school, not really the school i wanted my kids to go to but i wasnt really able to move cause we had some financial troubles.  we ended up filing for bankruptcy in 2002.  that was a pretty stressful situation for me having to deal with something like that.  that kind of led to a lot of the stuff that happened in 2003.
n 2003uh noin 2002, the beginning of 2003 that summer we filed bankruptcy and also in that same i think in the spring my dad had his first heart attack and then that summer we filed bankruptcy and that following october my son xxx (first name) was born; october 2001, which was a month after september 11th.  so theres quite a few events that took place in that year that was pretty stressful for me and in particular september 11th wasfor whatever reasoni really cant even explain it to this day but it really jarred me because before that i kind of had a view of the world and then even to this day i can notice that i dont look at things the same as i did before that date and i dont know what exactly changed  but i dont see things the way i saw them before and i can notice it every day so that was a pretty stressful time.
got to the point where after that event i kind of isolated myself from my family because i would be obsessed with the newscast.  i would watch the news every single second that i could.  if  i couldnt watch the news on the tv, id watch it on youtube to get the news stories or whatever so i became pretty obsessed with it and kind of really neglected the family and became pretty irritable.  things built and built and the following year, since i had isolated myself from everybody, i had foundthere was a young woman that started to work where i worked at the time and we kind of hit it off.  we had a lot of things in common and because i distanced myself from my family i kind of felt that i could confide in her a lot of things i was feeling so i never really intended to have an emotional affair with her.  we never had a physical affair, you know, but afterwards i know that it was emotional because i talked to her about things that i didnt talk to my wife about.
that kind of led to me questioning whether i wanted to be married to my wife and everything so i ended up leaving without really any warning.  i just one dayor i think it was after work actuallycame home from work and was like im leaving.  it was a big surprise to the family for sure.
no i mean i maybe had thought about it a few times, about whether or not i wanted to stay or continue on doing whatever it was that i was doing.  at the time, i didnt really feel like i was doing anything.  i felt maybe like i was kind of getting held back a little bit by the family, you know, i wasnt going to my full potential but a lot of it now, especially even after learning more and more about bipolar disorder, that i just had a lot of real grandiose ideas about what my lifes supposed to be.  even at some point i thought i was supposed to be some kind of important figure.  i was supposed to do important things so that kind of helped fuel the fire, fueled me saying you guys arent my plan cause youre keeping me back from doing this so ill just leave.  so i was gone for about 6, 7 months.  i really didnt--my wife would try to call me and i wouldnt answer the phone.
nshe even stopped by the housei rarely ever got to spend time with the kids.  i think it was maybe 3 or 4 times that i spent time with them, picked them up and you know, but i was kind of in a hurry to get them back home or get rid of them.  i didnt have a lot of emotional attachment with my son because from the time he was born until i think he was about a year and a half when i left.  during that time, i really didnt allow myself to become attached to him at all.  i mean there was no emotional attachment.  i mean i felt like i loved him but it was almost kind of like superficial cause im supposed to love him cause hes my son but i was gone for about 6 months.  in that time, she had actually given me some papers.  it was supposed to be some parental rights or something and i actually signed them.  i was just like i dont want anything to do with this so she never turned in that paperwork but i didnt even care whether or not my son was or that i would have anything to do with my son.
o at the end of the time i was gone, i was riding that rollercoaster pretty high, feeling pretty good about things and then i started to feel bad you know cause i was realizing the mistakes i was making and i reached out to my wife and kind of was talking to her about what i wasnt telling her about what i felt inside, which i mean felt like a total failure and i didnt think i was going to be able to make things better, be fixing things, so a lot of the times i was thinking well might as well just end it cause im not doing anything good so i dont really need to be around anymore so i wasi wouldnt say i would know how close i was to committing suicide but i know during that time, at the end of my time away from home, that i thought about it a lot.  even to the point where i couldnt get the thoughts out of my head like i would try to think about something else but it would always come back in so thats when i knew i needed help and i remember one morning i was supposed to go to work but i was just so filled up with thoughts that i couldnt concentrate on anything.
nded up going to the house.  i wasnt living there at the time but i went to the house and it was really early, like 5 oclock in the morning, and i sat in the driveway and waited for my wife to wake up cause she would wake up to get the kids ready for school and so she comes out of the house and asks me what im doing.  im like i dont really know.  im justi dont even know what to think right now.  so shes like you need to just go to work so i go to work and i go in and im like i cant work.  i mean i dont even know what to do so i went to my supervisor and i guess he could tell from as soon as i walked into his office thatwhich i guess, you know, that hed seen something happening at work as far as my work performance was suffering and so he said i knew something was going on.  so that morning he was just like youve got to leave.  youve got to go get some help somewhere cause this aint going to work if youre going to be this way so he sent me to eap.  we had eap at the time, employee assistance program, so he gave me the brochure and it had a number so i called and i told them about what i was feeling and asked me if i was thinking about committing suicide and i told them no.  it was kind of a lie but i ended up getting an appointment with someone in a couple days and when i went into see them it was a gentleman.  he asked me what was going on and i just told him everything.  i mean i probably rambled on for probably more than an hour and hes likewell he didnt really for sure say what he thought but he gave me an assessment and told me what it could be.
t could be treated.  its not something that cant be fixed.  not fixed but you can learn to live with it so within about 2 or 3 weeks i got into a nurse practitioner and filled out all the paperwork and after a couple sessions with her, she gave me the actual diagnosis of bipolar disorder with ocd tendencies cause i stillas long as im medicated.  i take effexor and lamictal so for the most part as long as i take my medication i dont have the compulsive thoughts and the impulsive thoughts like thinking about hurting somebody when im like i would never do that but the thought comes in my mind and its like where the hell did that come from so as long as i take my medication for the most part those are kept as bay.  that was one of the things that was kind of troubling for me when i was away from the house because all that stuff really ramped up like i was becoming fearful like always felt like somebody was behind me.  like driving the car i would have so much anxiety thinking there was somebody in the backseat for no reason im paranoid and just having this anxiety so all that stuff was happening.  i never really felt that stuff before.
n i had some depression and stuff, maybe some periods at time in my life that i was probably in a good mood most of the time, maybe a little elevated, but i never really noticed it at the point of it being a problem but when all this happened i mean it was totally to the extreme and i had a hard time dealing with that because i didnt understand what was happening especially when you think about something that you would never do as far as hurting someone or doing something bad and you dont want to do that its like why would i even think about that so that was a problem so i think that led to a lot of the depression that happened after i felt the thoughts of oh somethings wrong with me or im not really--i shouldnt be doing these things but since then everythings been pretty good.
there were a couple times that i was in between jobs and i got laid off in 2009 from a job for about 14 months.  this was a time when the economy was just tanked and i was working in the automotive field so that was hit pretty hard at that time so weand i worked in the research development so thats like one of the first things to get cut whenever the budget gets tight so i ended up being off work for about 14 months.  for the most part, i dealt with it pretty well because ive been to therapy.  ive seen i think she was a licensed clinical social worker but she didi think it was cognitive therapy or something like that.  anyways i went in to her almost every week.  there for a while i was going like twice a week; the first time i got a diagnosis.  after about 6 months, i started going about once a week and i probably di about once a week for more than a year and a half.  
he taught me quite a few things about how to handle the stress and the things that may come up withoutnot just with the medication but with the techniques to deal with the stress and not let it build or overwhelm me so when i got laid off for the most part i was able to deal with that pretty well and not have any kind of uh problem with that.  like before when i had a stressor it would totally set me off the edge so i went back to my employer that i got laid off from but the pay was less because they were just trying to keep the doors open but i didnt have full time employment so i just went back anyways.  about a yeari think it was a about a year that i got to the point where i thought things werent going to go anywhere.  there was a guy that had gotten laid off before me, a few months before me, he ended up going for a contracting position at xxx (employer name) on the west side.  he ended up getting full time there after about 9 months and there was a contract position open and he kind of talked to his boss.
thats how i got in there.  i wasnt making much more but since then i did a 2 year contract with them.  i wasnt able to get a full time spot for 2 years and then i had to leave and i ended up working at a factory, third shift, for i think it was about 8 months.  it kind of sucked, you know, you worked a lot and did a lot of overtime so i didnt really see the family a lot working third shift but i kind of kept my eye on the end goal was to get back into xxx (employer name) so i ended up getting offered a job in december of last year so ive been there since then and things have been pretty good.  my pay is a lot more and were getting back to better finances and things are pretty good and thats when i kind of decided after abouttil the end of maythen thats when i kind of decided well im going to go back to school cause they pay for schooling, your books, so i mean if the benefit is there then theres no reason why i cant use it so i ended up coming back to school and i eventually would like to have a bachelors in mechanical engineering and maybe in something beyond that but thats what brings me here to this research requirement for b110.
o ive been through a lot of stuff in my life but i think i was raised in a pretty religious family for the most part.  my mom was pretty devout christian so she instilled a lot of those values in me.  i think that had a lot to do with me getting through a lot of that stuff because i mean even though i kind ofi mean at one time i considered myself agnostic because i wasnt really interesting in anything but after everything that happened i really found a sense of peace in bringing god into things and asking him for help, praying to him, you know things i used to do as a kid growing up at home.  but i got away from that so when i went back i feel better about myself and i feel stronger knowing that gods there for me so thats got a lot to do with it so i think thats about it.
ection ii
id say just in the last couple years its just been thatyou know when i finished that contract at xxx (employer name) i was really hoping that i would have gotten the full time spot before my contract was up so i was a little bummed about that but i mean it was kind of good because i had a friend that knew the manager where i ended up working so it was pretty easy for me to get a job.  i mean i had that job before and i left before my contract ended so i mean it kind of worked out prettyi mean it was kind of nice how it was just laid out in my lap.  i mean for the most part i liked the people at my job.  they were good people, good to work with, but the stress of im not a third shift worker kind of guy but i chose third shift because i didnt want to be away from my family with the evening shift so i basically had a choice to take third or second.  i thought if i took second i would never get the chance to see my two oldest cause i had a third childwe had a third child february 2012xxx (first name) was kind of a surprise. 
guess you could say it was an accident but basically i think my wife had taken a medication that decreased the effectiveness of birth control so she ended up getting pregnant but i mean the birth of xxx (first name) even stressed me out after being september 11th but xxx (first name)shes just been a godsend.  shes kind of reinvigorated everything.  i mean after 11 years i thinklets see xxx (first name) was 11.  xxx (first name) was 16 at the time so it was quite a bit of gap between xxx (first name) and xxx (first name) so kind of forgot about a lot of things that goes with having a young one.  its been pretty different for the kids too.  it was a pretty good adjustment for them to kind of take her in but i think everybodys definitely glad that shes been added to our life.  shes definitely an important part of the family for everybody but just the last couple of years the stress of working at that job and the unknown of whether or not i could get to where i wanted to be was prettyi mean i got down a few times.
there were a couple periods in there where i could have been irritable to the family and stuff but theres kind of more of an understanding cause i was more kind of open about what i was feeling.  before i would always say im fine, even though it was obvious that i didnt seem fine, but every time my wife or somebody else would bring something up id be like im fine.  but now im more open about how im feeling so that wasi was able to deal with it better for that, you know, that aspect.  so it was tough but i ended up getting the job so things worked out for the better.
yeah id say the period when uh 2002, close to 2002 to 2003.  that was definitely my worst time so it wasim glad i got through it.  im sure there are a lot of people who dont actually make it through that based on what ive read about mental illness and ive read a lot about mental illness since then to get more of an understanding about others and ive read some books about other people that had bipolar and other types of mental illness.  not only for my understanding, but to kind of help my wife kind of see the changes before they really became a problem so she could point out things before it escalated to the point where it was harder to deal with and she went to a few of my therapy sessions too so that helped her too and helped me.  but yeah that was definitely a pretty stressful time, but thats the worst ive ever had to deal with.
just for the most part it was just the unknown of whether or not i would get what i wanted or what i wanted to be so kind of the feelings kind of creep in about ill be stuck here for the rest of my life or i wont be anything beyond what im at now.  i mean not hopeless but youre pretty close to it where you feel like just not going to get anywhere cause the last 4 years have been nothing but one hiccup after another but i had a lot of family support and as far as me getting back, right with god, i knew that he was going to provide for me so having that for me made it easier for me because i knew that i had a purpose and that god would help lead me to that purpose so i really didnt have to worry as much as what i did before cause i felt like it was all on me before like i had all this stuff to do.  i was just overwhelmed and thats where you get to the point where you kind of give up too because its like this is just too much for a person to handle so thats when things get even more stressful because everyone comes down on you saying you need to do this, you need to do that, and you start feeling real bad about yourself like just a failure, fail at everything at life so why even try cause im just going to fail.
ection iii: change
yeah i think they were a little more strained but i think it had a lot to do with me not having a lot of time or feeling like i had a lot of time.  well actually i forgot to mention that during that summer i had actually decided tomy son was in travel baseball but we ended up quitting travel baseball cause things were kind of unknown about what was going to go on so we ended up playing the community lead but i ended up volunteering to coach and i was the head coach, which a lot of years before i was just an assistant so not only was i going to work third shift but in the morning i had to do a lot of stuff with the team as far as getting stuff ready for the team so i found myself not even going to sleep until 10 or 11 oclock in the morning and still i wanted to get up pretty much the same time the kids got home from school.  
that made it pretty hard cause you go on a 5 or 6 hour sleep and then a lot of times we didnt have practices 2 or 3 times a week so thatd be around 5:30 or 6 oclock so i didnt have a lot of time to do stuff in the summer but when baseball was over that definitely helped but it wasa lot of what led to a lot of the relationship strain was just kind of me just dealing with the situation that i was in.  everybody else was kind of, you know, they wanted to be some place better.  they wanted me to have a better job.  they wanted me to be where i felt i needed to be to be happy so i guess that kind of strained a little bit but like i said i have tools now that help deal with it better than what i did before so but most of the time im just the kind of person that if the stress gets high then i really start questioning a lot of stuff about whether im doing everything that i need to do which before id be likeif something messed up id be like oh thats just me i screw things up *laughs* so why worry about it cause it just happens.
well ive always kind of had a kind of a flat emotional personality.  i mean i dont really change my facial expressions very much.  im not, which most people would agree, im not a bubbly personality.  i keep to myself most of the time so now i try to make more effort to talk about what im thinking when i didnt do that before but im still kind of, for the most part, unemotional about things.  i guess that was kind ofwhen i was young, growing up from what i can remember i think i was pretty kind of sociable happy kind of kid until i was probably about 13 and 14 but since then its kind of been an i guess defense mechanism for me to not show emotion because that helps me think that it doesnt matter.  its like if i dont show emotion then it doesnt matter and its not going to affect me so uh its not going to stress me out, which ends up being counterintuitive because it just makes it worse because you just internalized everything.  
but even now i try to be more outgoing and uh more willing to  kind of be more extroverted instead of introverted but im still for the most part introverted but yeah some people i guess kind of joke more now about my monotone personality but i have a pretty good amount of friends and i would likea lot of people before they knew me, like even a couple coworkers that i work with now, theyve even mentioned to me that when they first met me they thought that i might have been either kind of a snob or just kind of not somebody kind of a prick or something because i just kind of went about.  i didnt really say hi to people.  i just kind of walked around and not really acknowledged people even though im in a good mood and everythings fine, you know, im just not outgoing so a lot of people get a false uh false impression i guess.  i mean its my fault but thats what they get so ive tried to be better about that.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  whats stayed the same?  whats different?
i guess maybe the only thing that really changed is my thinking of where i would be later on down the road, you know, i did have some kind of pessimism about whether i would obtain what i felt i needed to be happy so i guess i did kind of get down about that a little bit so my general feeling overall was probably a little sad.  it was kind of just going through the motions almost, you know, kind of going through the grind and just sticking with it but that was kind of the only thing i really felt that i was able to do because i really didnt like going to that job.  it was dirty.  it was loud and youd smell when you got off work from the stuff that was in the place, you know, youd smell like it so it was just tough to go into work and do that so just that made you feel kind of down.  just cause you had to do it but i knew that i had to do it cause there wasnt any reali mean id look for other jobs from the time that i got laid off in 2009 for that 14 months that i spent on unemployment.
nded up going back to that job because there wasnt anything else to do so uh it really didnt even start getting really better until late last year and at the beginning of this year ive been getting tons of calls from recruiters.  its like where were you guys 3 years ago.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?
well i mean i dont think, for the most part, i even let that event control anything because i knew that if i did that id kind of get in the same boat that i had previously cause i knew even before that i even tried to think that everything was up to me.  now ive spent a lot of time meditating and praying over stuff, knowing that there was somebody in my corner supporting me, not willing to let me fail so that support helped me not let it control cause if i did then i probablyi dont know where id be.  i probably would have quit that job and went someplace else and that probably wouldnt have been a good thing.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time?
it was fairly good because i mean it was probably harder cause even when i went back to the job that i got laid off from i was on contract so i didnt have any insurance so from about april 2009 i think until uh 2013 so i went almost 2 and  years without medication cause i didnt have any insurance and i mean for the most part i handled it pretty well.  i mean i had a lot of ups and downs but i was never under enough real stress to kind of really trigger anything that i couldnt deal with on my own but like i said i use a lot of the techniques in my therapy that my therapist gave me to deal with a lot of that stuff, which i didnt have before so i mean i could definitely tell a difference.  my family could tell a difference as far as medicated and not medicated but it wasnt at the point where it wasnt a huge problem so when i got on that factory job, which i got insurance from there so that was nice, so i was able to get on medication.  that was nice.
those made it easier to deal with and ive been on medication again since i think that was like july 2013 so ive been on medication since then.  things have been going pretty good.  it definitely helps having the medication cause i know that my brain doesnt work quite as well as it should so medication definitely helps regulate my mood cause i think for the most part the effexor helps me not get real down but lamictal really helps with my mood swings because without it i mean i could be pretty good in the morning and really just pissed off in the evening.  with lamictal, theres really no ups and downs with me.  im pretty much the same most of the time so uh the thing ive had to deal with recently is ive had a sleep study done because ive felt tired a lot, kind of dozing off at work.  ill see about getting on a cpap machine because i was experiencing apnea during the night so thats actually, you know, being on that machine has actually helped my mood.  i think ive been on it for at least 2 months i think so getting good sleep helps your brain function so thats helped quite a bit too but i didnt have insurance to do that type of stuff before.
my immediate family of course would be most affected.  my wifei can kind of stress her out pretty easily.  i mean she kind of worries about things more than i do.  im kind of like eh itll work itself out and she worries about everything so being that time when i left, you know, even to this day if she sees things kind of going that direction that its going to go that far again so there is a little bit of anxiety that she feels whenever my mood gets similar, even just small similarities to make her kind of jump back and say hey this is similar to what you were doing then so something that she didnt really recognize before because she didnt understand it but now she has an understanding so whenever she sees it she puts up the red flag and we talk about it.  im usually like yeah okay youre right and i may argue with her about it but in the end weve talked about it and weve expressed our feelings.  it wasnt really something we did before so we ended up going to marriage counseling for a little while and that helped.
y kids uh xxx (first name), even recently like the last couple of years, hes 13 now so hes at that stage that i remember being 13 where i kind of butted heads with my dad too so whenever i get kind of in a bad mood it affects him probably.  it affects my wife probably the most but second would probably be xxx (first name) because hes kind of emotional, not really emotional but uh he kind of takes things internally kind of like what i did when i was younger so definitely those two are affected.  my older daughteri guess shes kind of like me in that aspect of kind of uh not really letting things affect her but sometimes i worry because i think she doesnt really express her feelings enough but, you know, i have a mental illness.  
y sister had a mental illness.  my dad struggled with it.  my older sisteri think she does too but shes never gotten any kind of help.  i had an uncle that committed suicide and i had an auntthis is all my dads side.  my dads sister i think she was borderline schizophrenic or something like that.  im not sure about that but definitely there were some issues so definitely theres quite a few issues on my dads side so i watch my kids closely because i want to see the signs before it becomes a problem or affects their life the way it did mine because it can be very damaging if you dont find the fix soon enough or just kind of go live your life and not really know whats going on so i keep a close eye on them cause my familys pretty prone to mental illness so the likelihoods pretty high that one of my three kids will have some type of mental illness i would think.  im just not quite sure which one yet.
im not really sure of others besides my family who affected me too much but my mother.  i dont really speak to my dad a lot.  hes kind of introverted too like he never goes anywhere really.  hes got a couple close friends that hell visit them but thats like the only place he goes but like he doesnt go out in public like hes got a lot of social anxiety.   he gets nervous about things even if theres a bunch of people like we had thanksgiving on saturday for my side and i could tell that he was kind of heightened anxiety just having that many people in the house but being family hes definitely more open to be in that situation but if he feels like hes overwhelmed hell go out in the garage or somewhere.
y mother has been definitely one to help kind of guide me in things.  i seek advice from her probably more than anybody.  thats what ive been used to my whole life.  my dad was a truck driver so he wasnt really home a lot when i was growing up so any time i had something going on it was my mom i would talk to.  she was always real open about things, wanted me to kind of just spill it.  for the most part, i kept a pretty good number of things from her but not a lot.  i dont really have a lot of what i would say close friends.  i have two friends that were friends with me in high school, middle school but i didnt really for the most part i dont communicate with them enough like i see them every now and then.  i think if i lived closer to them id probably see them more but uh i can talk to both of them and they can affectlike if im down about some things then i usually feel better.  not only can they give me a little optimism but they can even tell me about what theyre going through and kind of gives me reassurance that im not the only one having a tough time so it kind of puts things in perspective.
far as like acquaintances, unless i considered you a very close friend like i said i only have two that i would consider close friends then i dont really follow anybody else.  like i said i have the personality where people think i just dont care but i really dont think about what others think of me, especially if theyre not my family or close friends cause everybodys got opinions about people and i dont gossip and most of the time people want to gossip and im not into that *laughs* so i dont really talk to a lot of people that i dont know really well because most of the time they just want to talk about somebody else like i dont want to do that *laughs*.
well i mean im pretty optimistic now.  things have been going pretty well.  the, you know, with me being in school and im working full-time and in school full-time so thats pretty tough but ive got a lot of support from family and friends.  as far as being able to do the work, sometimes if ive got down time at work i can work on homework or that type of stuff so its not extremely difficult but ive got to stay on top of things but i see the end.  i can see the goal.  it doesnt seem like its not obtainable.  i mean it seems to me to be obtainable so i try to get closer to it.  a lot of times before with going everything ive gone through have made me a better person where i would mess up a few times and i would be like i cant even see where im going so why even bother so now ive been able to kind of get to the point where i can start something and see where im going and just keep on doing what im doing so i think if i keep on going full-time ill graduate in the spring of 2018 which is pretty good for just starting last summer, this past summer, so hopefully ill get my bachelors and i would like to get into engineering.
n engineering technician where i work now, you know, they give me  tasks and collect data and then give them data from the tests but eventually with the bachelors id like to get into doing more of the engineering.  its not really about the money for me, i mean, im not really one to need money as far as needing a lot of money.  what i make now is what i would consider adequate.  i mean ive got to run a pretty tight budget but for the most part im happy for where i am so its not really a money issue.  its more having a sense of accomplishment cause its something i felt i should have done.  i mean i got an associates degree in industrial technology like 11 or 12 years ago so i accomplished that but before that id always had bigger aspirations for myself, even after high school and stuff, so being at the point where im at now if i get to the point where i have that, cause i planned that after high school becoming a mechanical engineer, but uh it just at the time it seemed like i wouldnt be able to do it so i settled for something less of getting an associates degree in industrial technology because it seemed like it wasnt hard. 
r the most part, ive done well in the classes because it wasnt real challenging so i kind of because i didnt want to fail at it i kind of set my goals kind of low that way i didnt mess up.  even now the classes are more difficult but uh i know if i can get through it and get it done, i know the feeling that im going to get is going to be well worth it so just finishing something that i should have finished years ago uh i know is going to be very satisfying, not only for me but also for my family.  i definitely think its definitely going to be good later on having that and of course more money would definitely be great but its not the number one priority for me.  its not the only reason why im doing it.
o my dad was in the army as a ranger, a sniper, uh so i was born in washington d.c and i dont remember any of that.  we moved to hawaii for a couple of years, which i also do not remember at all.  then we settled down in utah, xxx (town name) utah when i was about 4 or 5 years old so and thats where my memories begin mostly.  i attended elementary school at xxx (elementary school name) in xxx (town name) utah from uh the time i got there in preschool through the time i left there 5th grade and made some okay friends, dont really keep in touch with any of them anymore unfortunately.  its kind of a rundown area.  i kind of got into a little bit of trouble with a local gang.  i got into a stupid fight when i was younger and ended up beating up a latino individual who went onto middle school that year.  given the demographic of the neighborhood, it was just not a good or safe area.
o that was one of the reasons we chose to move when i was about halfway through 5th grade.  i still completed my 5th grade year at that xxx (elementary school name).  we then moved to xxx (town name) in utah where i went to xxx (elementary school name) uh for the rest of my 6th grade year and that was really great.  i started making some great friends.  there was one friend in particular that lived across the street from me who i was very good friends with.  his name was xxx (first and last name) and had a lot of great experiences with him.  we got into a little bit of trouble though and i developed some bad habits that i wished i hadnt that to this day id rather not talk about.  but despite all that weve gone our separate ways.  he kind of got into the whole drug and sex and all that scene whereas ive never participated in any of those things, fortunately.
o once elementary school was over i went on to middle school at xxx (middle school name) in xxx (town name), utah uh still living in xxx (town name), utah.  i attended there from 7th through 9th grade and played basketball myi guess 7th through 9th grade years but i actually played on the team my 9th grade year where we did just not really traveling team but sort of just pick up teams my 7th and 8th grade years.  i had a really great coach.  he was a great mentor, coach xxx (last name) and i learned a lot that year.  i didnt really have any close knit friends.  i thought i did but when i reflect back on it i kind of drifted from clique to clique and group to group and never really had a set uh group that i clicked with very well.  i was known by everybody but not really embedded with anybody.  then once 9th grade was over in utah, thats all middle school up to9th grade so then high school begins your sophomore year so i attended xxx (high school name) uh my sophomore year and half of my junior year.
played basketball my sophomore year there and it was really frustrating experience.  the coaches there werent very good.  they didnt know how to treat a member of the team fairly.  a lot of us were frustrated with that.  for example, it was kind of a brand thing where if your name was well known then you kind of got to play but if nobody knew your name, your family name not you in particular, but those who had been at xxx (high school name) the longest were the most well-known so i wasnt one of those and i think during the season i got maybe 5 minutes of game time throughout the whole season.  it was really frustrating because it was something i loved and i didnt really get to participate as much as i would have liked so i quit that following year.  i had a falling out with a lot of the team and kind of lost a lot of friends.  at that point, i was still kind of wandering from group to group but the people on the basketball team turned out to not be quite as good of friends as i thought.
they were very self-centered and kind of had their own personal agenda so i didnt click well.  i was very angry and bitter for several years over that.  there was a girl as well that i became very good friends with through all that and to this day shes still a really good friend.  shes still the very first person i ever like loved i would say but it never worked out.  it was a faith thing.  i grew up being mormon and we have a lot of standards and she was not lds, or mormon as kind of a nickname but the proper name for our faithlatter day saints.  she would never tell me why she wouldnt date me or anything but she still spent a lot of time with me and we were still good friends.  she dated jerks for the most part who would cheat on her and i never understood that mentality but she was an important part of my life so i kind of kept track of her, felt sorry for her sometimes, and to this day i still think about her but she still kind of does poor decision based things and at this point were not in touch and its because of her boyfriend.
given what was going on in high school, i really didnt have too many people to rely on at times so i decided to join the football team which i never had done before.  my mom would never let me do that as a child.  she was afraid id get hurt and i was pretty thin and lean at that time so i was kind of fragile i guess.  i didnt feel like it and i never really experienced that.  everybody kind of looked at me as kind of like one of the top guys.  i dont know why but a lot of people didnt really take the time to know me.  i had a bad attitude so that probably didnt help my persona and just didnt really do me any favors with making friends but i joined the football team and met two of my best friends during that time period who i still stay in touch with today and theyre about one oftwo of maybe a dozen people maybe that i still stay in touch with from high school.  whenever i go out and visit, i live with them rather than with my family.  ill stay with them instead just cause of how close we are.  ive kind of been adopted by their families so i get along with them better than my own family sometimes.  
but halfway through my junior year we moved here to xxx (city name).  i live in xxx (town name) currently and weve lived up there for about 6 years now, my family has, and i finished high school at xxx (high school name).  it was kind of a very big culture shock.  in utah, theres not a lot of uh african american individuals so that was a new experience for me.  ive always gotten along with everybody.  ive never considered myself to be racist.  although, im susceptible to using racial slurs often but ive never looked down on anybody because of their race or thought less of them.  i feel like we are all created equal and god loves all of his children despite any mistakes they might make and ive always tried to live by that but all my friends, once i moved to xxx (town name), were actually black and that was a lot of fun.
played basketball all the time and i felt like i actually got better at it now that i wasnt so stressed about trying to impress a coach.  i had really great friends that i could hone my skills with and it was a lot of fun but i really missed utah a lot.  i didnt realize how much i would miss it, miss my two friends out there xxx (first name) and xxx (first name) who i met my junior year about 2 months before i moved and like i said to this day we still stay in touch.  once my senior year hit, i got a job at costco so i was working about 24 hours a week while finishing my senior year of high school.  i got my good friend xxx (first name) a job there as well and then we had a falling out towards the end of senior year in which we had a falling out at work where i was upset with him because he was not doing his job and he was one of my partners that i was working with in just trying to keep the place clean so i out of anger just vented to a supervisor who wasnt out to get anybody.
wasnt trying to get him in trouble but he took it the wrong way and nobody got it wrong and nobody got anything wrong but he decided that i was a snitch and kind of spread a pretty bad rumor about me at school so nobody trusted me the last two months of my senior year.  i kind of lost all my friends through that but we reconciled uh the last couple weeks of school, at least him and i did.  i dont stay in touch with anybody from xxx (town name) though and even xxx (first name)we talk maybe once a year now.  weve just kind of fallen pretty far apart, which is fine with me.  it happens and after that i was still struggling with some things that like i said back in my 6th grade year, in elementary school.  xxx (first name) and i had gotten into trouble and i had some mental uh addictions that im not proud of and i was struggling with that along with my faith and trying to be worthy as a member of my church too.
erved a two year mission, which i was able to do.  i got myself put back together and it was really great.  i served in xxx (city name), california for two years and i lived in newport beach for a couple months.  i lived in xxx (town name), california for about 7 and  months then to xxx (town name), california for about 4 and  months then xxx (city name) and xxx (town name) area for about another 10 and  months and i believe that covers those 2 years.  i had about 12 different companions whom i lived with and taught other individuals that we would contact on the streets and we would knock on their doors with and i learned a lot from each one.  some of them more than others and a lot of it just kind of felt like i was babysitting where they would send 19 year old boys out to do something as big as sharing a faith and trying to baptize individuals and play a role in peoples conversions cause i dont think when someone converts it has anything to do with us.  
think it already has something to do with their faith and them exercising that faith by doing the things that the ministrys invited them to do rather than us trying to force it upon them and throughout all that i felt like i grew a lot and became more of a man than i would have if i had chosen not to serve that mission cause in no way was that an obligatory job that i had to do.  it was all voluntary.  i actually had to pay my own way to do it.  we dont even get to choose where we go but thats not important.  i loved it and i learned a lot from it.  unfortunately i got really sick on my mission.  i developed celiac disease and i didnt think that my life would change that much so even though my mission was a very positive experience i got very sick and i lost about 20 pounds during that trip.  i was about 185 pounds about 7 months into my mission and by the time i had completed the other year and 5 months i was about 165 pounds so i was very sick.
didnt feel good.  i couldnt eat much.  i was terrified to eat and to some degree i still am and its exhausting some days worrying about what im going to eat, when im going to eat, uh being scared if im eating anything thats safe or something thats going to harm me and it was really just a frustrating thing and upon returning home i lost another 10 pounds, dropping down to 155 pounds so i was very thin.  i looked very gaunt and i was just really ill and i didnt have much energy to do anything.  i found out afterwards i had mono as well which surprised me since i hadnt been involved with anybody.  i couldnt think of where i could have contracted that uh so i went rather than to a doctor i went to some *indiscernible* specialist.  its like an eastern holistic medicine sort of thing which helped a little bit.  it definitely mellowed out my stomach somewhat.  i dont know how to explain it cause it was very unorthodox treatment that i did for several months.  it was about 6 months that i did treatments throughout and i got back from my mission in march of 2013 and started dating a girl named xxx (first name) and she is preparing to go on a mission as well.
just met her.  i had no previous relationship with her before my mission.  i met her a week after i got back from my mission and we began dating for about a month and a half before she left and that was a really great relationship.  ive never really been in a relationship where somebody actually showed that they cared about me at all so that was kind of a new thing for me and i didnt realize how that would help me later on cause my next relationship wasnt so great but i applied for school, starting going to a young adult congregation at my church, which was good at first and i met some pretty good people that i enjoy being around to this day and some other people who ive kind of burned bridges with because theyre just notthey dont quite have the integrity that i thought they did.  but i messed up in some ways too.  its not all their fault so i dont want to push responsibility away for my actions.  my dad, being a disabled veteran; he was discharged about 4 years after he had started as a sniper because of a helicopter accident.  he was fast roping and crushed the discs in his lumbar vertebrae so hes always been in pain.  ive never seen him go a day without being in pain but i get free tuition here at xxx (college name) because hes a disabled veteran.  i get the remission fees, which is a really big blessing.
t was kind of interesting just because he was never really home when we lived in utah.  he was always traveling for his work and at that time his back wasnt so terrible but when we moved to indiana he had a more permanent job so he wasnt traveling so much anymore but we never really got along because i grew up being kind of the man of the house.  he was home maybe 4 days out of each month.  hed come home on the weekends whenever he could but i have two little sisters and my mom and i was kind of the one that took care of the house.  i cleaned the yard.  i put things together when i could and we lived on an acre of property and i was the one that weeded it.  it was a desert so we had tumbleweeds everywhere and i would take the four-wheeler out, put a rake on the back, and i would rake up all the weeds and burned them and i kind of took care of the property.  when we moved here to indiana, it was kind of a foreign idea to me to share the house with my dad whose the one who pays for the house and we butted heads a lot.
nally mellowed out, i feel like, and being ex-military like he is hes stubborn as well.  we just get along better now but it wasnt so great for a while but hes always been good to us like hes a good man.  lets seeso i applied to xxx (college name), got in thanks to the service and i started my first semester of college at 21 years old.  i turned 22 in september of 2013 and it was a good year.  i met a girl named xxx (first name) and she wasnt so good.  she attended the congregation i currently attend and we dated for a little bit but i found out later that she had been cheating on me the whole time with her ex-boyfriend and psychologically i never went through anything like that.  i was very bitter and angry to the point where i just completely uh removed all contact from her.  she was kind of a coward about it.  she never confronted me about it and just decided to stop showing up.
he actually never admitted that she cheated either.  she just kind of walked away and was a total coward about it which to this day is really frustrating and that was may of 2014 when i finally found everything out.  shed been doing it for 6 whole months.  it was right after i took her to a concert too and that just really hurt that she could use me like that and not care.  i didnt see how somebody could do that, especially someone from my faith cause were supposed to have more integrity than that.  any christian should and she was garbage and to this day i have not talked to her and ive seen her once and she waved and i literally just walked away.  i couldnt even look at her.  she made me sick, which may not be the most appropriate thing for me to do but i dont know--when you do all that through a text with someone thats not really appropriate either.  i have a hard time viewing her as anything less than garbage so its something ive been coping with for a few months and ive been coping with it poorly.
o i made it through my fall and spring semesters my first year of college, freshman year, decided to do exercise science.  i wanted to be a physicians assistant but my health has been declining more and more and i think a lot of it has to do with that break up that i had with xxx (first name).  ever since ive developed hypersomnia, which has been really frustrating.  its hard for me to stay awake in classes and ive even struggled with staying awake while driving which is really awful because i get 8 to 9 hours of sleep most nights and i still just cant stay awake and i think a lot of it has to do with my diet as well.  just with the celiac disease i dont absorb nutrients that i need as well as people who have normally functioning abilities in their body so thats really frustrating and i kind of feel like a lesser person because of that.  
ke i am at a huge disadvantage compared to most people even though i get straight as for the most part i still feel like i have to work ten times harder than others because im constantly fighting my body just to make it each day and that gets exhausting and some days i honestly wish i didnt have to wake up.  its really irritating sometimes cause ive never been like that before.  ive never been this depressed where i wouldnt care if it just ended the next morning.  i would be perfectly content with the pain being over.  i think a lot of it has to do with my views on the afterlife as well.  i believe that once mortality ends that our spirit leaves our body for a little season and the pains gone and the pain you have to deal with then is if you chose not to follow the lord.  if you made those decisions, youve kind of forged your own personal hell in the afterlife.  however, you will eventually get your body back only this time it will be perfected and you wont have to deal with that physical pain anymore so its a little different from other christian beliefs but thats what our views as the lds church believes is.
ntually everybody gets their body back and all bodies will be perfect.  theres no physical ailment anymore.  theres no disease.  theres no sickness, although that emotional pain may still be there you get a perfect body which i think gives me a lot of hope and thats why its not suicidal for me to sometimes just wish it was just over.  its just me where i wouldnt have to deal with the pain day after day and just wishing for some relief cause its chronic and it gets tiring more so than i feel necessary so i deal with that and i work really hard in school to try and just get through.  im seeing a sleep specialist now hoping that shell know something that maybe just maybe theres medicine that can keep me awake and focused because next semesters going to be a lot harder than this one and im really going to need to stay awake and thats my issue right now is i have a hard time doing that.  i work as an emt as well on the weekends.  i work about 20 hours a week and i work in the xxx (college name) natatorium as a weight room attendant so i have two jobs and going to school full time and its just exhausting but the works not that strenuous is the thing. 
back when i was younger, i was handling stuff like this without breaking a sweat.  i think thats why its so frustrating now like im 23.  i feel like i should be at the peak of my physical health and im not and i look at others and i get angry because i cant do the things that theyre doing and its not a defeatist attitude.  its just im physically in too much pain to keep up with them when i really want to and its frustrating after a while but im here now and its my first semester as a sophomore.  im studying exercise science, hoping to be a pa one day, maybe get a minor in psychology which psychology has been really interesting and a lot of it has been based on my own diagnoses of myself.  i feel like im very self-aware of whats going on but i still have a hard time controlling my emotions.  im very angry with how things have turned out with my life up to now.  i feel like my self-worth is at an all-time low currently and it just kind of gets a little lower every day and im having a hard time with self-control and just keeping myself mentally clean and morally straight, even though i still treat everybody or at least do my best to treat others with respect.
that i dont treat myself with the respect that i deserve and thats extremely frustrating and i think thats harder to recover from than anything else because were our own worst critics.  like i said i burnt a lot of bridges with good friends because they tried to help and i didnt like the way they attempted to help because they know im going through a hard time and a lot of it stems from my own personal choices and just being very unforgiving and thats just like i said burned some bridges with people i wish i hadnt but at the same time ive also recognized that some of them had their own agendas and that has also been very frustrating.  i know its not delusional to spite me and maybe not being as mentally stable as i could be.  i recognize when someones not being as integrity as they could be and that kind of brings me to the here and now.  im trying to finish out this year.  
plan onmy current plan is to leave indiana as soon as possible and move back to utah.  ive applied to xxx (college name) in xxx (town name), utah and i hope to move there in june and continue to study exercise science, move in with some friends ive made here who have also applied there and one of them is moving out there right now and is hopefully going to have some housing ready for us when we get out there.  i plan to join the air force as well.  i plan to be a combat medic as a pair jumper and hopefully have them help me out cause ill no longer see free tuition once i move out there cause i have to remain in state to receive that from my dads benefits so im hoping that if i join the air force and be trained by them then ill receive some educational benefits as well and will be getting paid to be there as a job and yeah thats it.
ection ii
yes.
uh falling apart and continues to do so even after the fact.
uh like i said with xxx (first name) it was justi mean i kind of explained most of it and she toyed with me and used me and uh thats not really cool.  thatll mess up just about anybody if theyre morally right.  i feel like i am.  i cared about her and she didnt care about me at all and to find out that she just threw all of that out when ive never really opened up to anybody like that before didnt really feel like much of a human being.
i think moving to indiana was really frustrating.  i had just made two of my closest friends that i had ever made and two months later we were separating so that was really frustrating and i remember we left new years day and it was very cold, very bleak.  i stayed at my friend xxx (first name)s house that night.  xxx (first name) was also there and we just kind of hung out until about 5 am and then we all passed out.  i met back up with my parents that morning at about 10 and i remember picking up my sister before i met up with them.  she was staying with a friend and saying her goodbyes and we just cried driving back.  i was 17 and she was 15.  that was my middle sister.  we have one more thats younger whos uh i think shes 4 years younger than me so she was about 13 or 12 at the time but she was still young enough where she wasnt being uprooted and it wasnt such a terrible thing to her.  whereas me and xxx (first name) had roots and kind of felt like we were getting the short end of the stick so that was hard.  
definitely remember being extremely sad especially with xxx (first name).  the first girl i mentioned who i had very strong feelings for and love very much.  it was hard to leave just knowing that nothing was ever going to come from that and it was really unsettling for me.  now im perfectly content with just being her friend.  after my mission, i kind of developed my own self and realized that im more happy with her just being a friend but at the time it was really hard to leave.
well i mean shes a traitor.  shes garbage.  she justi cant even call her a human.  i dont know anybody with that low of integrity that they even lie to their own family.  she was telling her family that she was seeing me and none of them had any idea that she was seeing her ex-boyfriend at the same time from day one and that to me is unacceptable.  i hate her.  i cant even stand her so i think shes just garbage.  i dont know if that answers the question.
i havent.  id like to think i have but im still exhausted.  i still think about it on a daily basis.  im over her but i feel like i have no emotional disclosure whatsoever and i still make dumb decisions to cope with it and its justive kind of lost myself right now.  im trying to put myself back together because i know who i need to be and itsmaybe i havent necessarily lost myself but im just kind of broken.  i feel broken and im just trying to put the pieces back together so i can function normally again.
ure.  i dont see why not.  
ection iii: change
chooli got straight as.  i was studying anatomy and emt at the time.  i was far enough along in my emt class where it wasnt too big of a deal but i was trying to get an a in anatomy and actually failed my final but still got an a+ in the class because i had done so well throughout the semester.  that was really frustrating.  i just completely lost it in school.  i couldnt focus.  i spent so many hours in the library just doing nothing.  i went there almost every day with the intent to study and it just never happened after that uh and i just fell apart.  i was just grateful it was just so close to summer where i could just not worry about school at the time and kind of just uhmy goal was to put myself back together but i went up to utah and just fooled around with a bunch of girls and didnt have sex or anything like that but just kind of messed around.  
was just kind of being a player and i hated every second of it and it was stupid and it was me just trying to find peace in something that i felt like was worse than what she did to me even though i felt like i wasnt.  i dont know.  i dont know how to explain it.  it didnt feel good because thats not who i am and i know i could have been doing better.  so even though my trip out to utah in early june was relaxingi got to spend time with some good friends, xxx (first name), xxx (first name), and xxx (first name) and see all my family.  i got home and wasnt quite as upstanding member of my church as i should have been when i left uh and thats frustrating because my church to me is number one but i havent treated it like it for several months now.
i attended.  thats about it.  i didnt really get much out of it.  at that time, i wasnt an emt.  i just worked in the weight room so that didnt really require any effort so i worked out and that was it.  i used working out as kind of a coping mechanism but yeah i attended.  that was about the only thing that was the same.  i didnt attend classes in the summer.
with my family, i was more irritable.  i got in more arguments with them.  friendslike i said i broke bridges with them because they got a little too nosey and just were jerks and sometimes they--i think one of them spread a rumor about me and one of the girls in the congregation wont go near me now because im guessing she took his word for it and didnt take the time to know me for who i actually am so i broke that bridge with him just because he was burning bridges for me.  he was just a toxic individual.  other friendsit was good like people were supportive and took my side, obviously.  i mean if someone cheats on you its not their fault; its the person who cheated.  so i did have good support from a lot of people and i just didnt really think much of myself.
i mean i dont know.  i kind of declined more than anything.  i didnt feel like a lot of it was the same.  i actually started hanging out with different people and i mean that happens every semester.  i meet a new group of people and thats kind of the people that im in classes with.  i make new friends every semester and i study with them.  i dont really have time for other groups.  theres a few people that i hang out with frequently that are the same but its only like a handful of them, like 5 or 6 of them so thats probably about the only same thing are those few individuals.
i was depressed far more than ive ever been.  i felt like i was betrayed and therefore i was extremely angry.  i felt pathetic that i could let something like that happen to me.  i was just angry and bitter about everything and still am in some ways.  i feel like i dont trust people anymore.  i put up a lot of walls and im a pretty open book, even with those walls up but im very reserved now and i just dont like letting people in and when i do i do it very methodically.  i try not to let them know that much about me until theyre there to stay and not just going to walk away if im inconvenient so i guess im a lot more protective of myself now.  i lash out very easily uh if i dont like something someones doing or if i see somebody that cant defend themselves being picked on or i see someone getting cheated on im very, very uh i want retribution immediately and im very verbal about that when i can be.   
the opportunity presents itself, im very outgoing with those thoughts and i let people know what i think of them.  yeah i just i kind of demand retribution whenever i see an opportunity for it now and i dont think it out as much as i used to, which isnt the best thing for a lot of situations but its kind of like not caring in a way.  i just i dont care.  i just want toif i see somebody cause pain i want to see them suffer tenfold and if i can be the cause of it i guess that can make me feel better or something.  i dont know.
i still care about people.  i feel like i am a compassionate person for those i do let it.  ive always been very loyal to those who express trust and love for me, even with my family, especially with my family even though i may not get along with them very well im still extremely loyal to them and thats something thats always been the same about me.  i do care about people a lot, even those i may not necessarily agree with.  i still care about them and i would like to see everyone be successful.  i know thats sort of a perfect world sort of deal but itll still be nice to just see people just be happy even though that doesnt happen all the time but i dont know just compassion and loyalty i guess are the two big things i can think of.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  what changed?
cognitions and emotions uh i hate being alone.  i notice that im very depressed when im alone and that depression typically dissipates very quickly when somebody else is in my proximity.  it doesnt really matter who it is; its justi dont know how to explain it but when im alone i feel almost extreme sorrow and i hate being alone whereas i used to enjoy it before and now i dont quite get that same enjoyment.  cognitioni may be thinking of this wrong but i just am very justice oriented.  i like swift penalty for peoples wrongdoings and uh i just i dont know.  i dont know i just would like to see people get whats coming to them when they deserve it.  i feel like thats become an obsession almost where it can be hard to focus because of it.  i would like to be the one handing out that retribution sometimes and its just frustrating.  i used to not really care that much.  i mean i cared but not enough where it distracted me from the day and cognitively im also very tired though all the time so i dont think im quite in a stable state of mind.  
think it would be a lot different because i was a lot different before.  ive always had anger before but it was easy to cope with to a degree, before i got sick, and now i just feel like im so reactive that i dont know how to control it sometimes and its frustrating.  it makes cognitive things, functionssometimes i do things i think i wouldnt normally do if i wasnt sick.  i think that has a lot to do with it.  im less forgiving since i got sick as well.  i think that has a lot to do with my anger and my bitterness because its the one thing thats out of my control and im bitter about it like who wouldnt be.  some people deal with it really well but i have not yet proven to be one of those people but im trying to be.  its just really hard.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  what stayed the same?  
i feel like the majority of most things.  i mean ive always been somewhat irritable but i guess i just kind ofthat experience compounded with my health just made everything just more reactive so not much has changed beyond i just have a shorter fuse for some things.  i feel like im still me.  i just dont think as clearly and as quickly sometimes.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?
it was all i could think about for a long time.  i mean just i wanted tobefore i found out she had actually cheated on me cause i didnt find that out beforei just wanted her back.  i did everything i could to solve it and to try and fix it cause i always thought it was something i had done wrong that pushed her away and it wasnt until i found out that i realized i didnt do anything wrong.  it was literally all her.  she just did not want to tell the truth.  she didnt want to admit that what she was doing was wrong and that she knew it.  it just affected everting like i couldnt accept that.   i would love to chew her out but she doesnt care so whats the point like shes willing to live with it and theres nothing that i could say thats going to change that so that took a while to get over because i so badly just wanted to beat her down and just let her know how worthless she is but it literally would not make a difference and that sucks because shell never be as hurt as i am  so it caused a lot.
i got sicker uh the stress just was awful and i couldnt focus.  i was bitter with my family.  i started making very poor decisions and turning back to old habits that i thought i had put away for good but apparently i hadnt.  it just caused a lot.  it was a catalyst for just way too much and im trying to recover from it.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time?
i wasnt.  i was angry the entire time.  i hated every second of it.  i didnt want to get out of bed some days.  there were days where the only reason i got up is because i never missed a day of school unless i felt like i was dying in bed sick but like ive never missed a day otherwise.  ive attended every class.  ive never skipped.  im an individual of habit that way and i felt like if i hadnt attended it would throw things even more but i would wake up and just literally wish i was dead.  i just didnt want to do it anymore but i just had to.  i dont know why i had to i just did.
my mom was really sad about it.  she didnt know what to do for me, still doesnt.  we dont really talk about it anymore because i get upset when its brought up.  my dads frustrate with me cause he thinks i should just get over it but he doesnt understand which surprises me cause his back hes in pain everyday so i would think hed have some idea of what its like to be psychologically ragged but i dont think hes ever dealt with severe depression like this where its to the point where you almost cant function at all and i dont know how to explain it to him so he justhe gets frustrated being the individual that he is and my mom usually has to diffuse fights between us and he wont shut up and i refuse to back down because he doesnt get it and he wants to make assumptions.  im not okay with that because he has no idea what im going through.  my sistersive kind of just kept them out of it as much as i can.
i had a lot of good friends that were worried about me and they were the ones that i would turn to when i was having a very difficult time and they were the ones that helped the most.  being 22 at the time and 23 now, i just didnt want to turn to my parents.  i live with them currently and im trying to get away from them.  not because theyre bad or anything but the only reason im at home now is cause im so sick that im barely making it in school and now im working two jobs and im burning out on both ends.  i justadding rent and all that other crap to my list of expenses that i have to do on top of my insurance, on top of my groceries, on top of everything else; i dont know how much else i can take without getting into a ton more debt.  my friends are the ones that have i guess been keeping me afloat.
hopefully stability uh id be happy with just stability at this point.  i want to be married.  i want to have a family.  i want to have lots of children.  i want to be a dad and i want to provide for my family very well.  i want to show complete fidelity to my wife.  i never want to give her any reason to think that i might be unfaithful to her and i would hope that she would never be unfaithful to me.  thats it.  its pretty simple.  i just want to live a good family life and raise a family and die happy.
well i was born in 1991 in xxx (town name), indiana.  the earliest i can remember i was i think 2 close to 3 years old.  i had gotten lost from my parents at an art festival and i actually remember walkingrunning away from them and looking for them.  they shortly caught up to me after that.  from then on, like when i was 5 to 6, i remember being babysat by my mom and i remember going to school to kindergarten.  i went to a small christian school.  i went to a small christian school most of my life.  after that, i changed schools in first grade.  i went to a different one.  i then changed schools again in second grade, which i stayed in that school until i graduated high school.  i remember some about second grade.  i remember the biggest thing about that was i hadwe had written assignments we called seat work i think and i wouldnt really do it and i remember other people getting caught and getting in trouble but i didnt.  i just stuck it in my desk and nobody really found that out.
dont really know of anything eventful up until like 4th grade.  i remember we had people escort us to our car and i ended up falling.  i tripped over my backpack and i broke my fingers in the parking lot.  thats all i can say about that one and then in 6th grade i remember i broke a bone in my wrist because i was playing basketball and fell backwards and tried to catch myself and broke my wrist.  then after that in 7th grade i was always really quite in 7th grade cause i was kind of new and i was more involved with the older kids and stuff like that.  i was never really a talkative person anyway but it uh i was more uncomfortable because of all the new people and stuff.  thenand i didnt play sports in 7th gradebut then i did play sports in 7th grade.  i played basketball.  in 8th grade, the next year, i didnt play any sports but then for some reason one time i was out with the soccer team and i remember i could outrun all of them, even the seniors, and so i was pretty happy about that so that changed my mind and i decided to play sports again my freshman year.
played basketball.  i didnt play soccer at the time.  i also met my first girlfriend that year.  we started dating i think at the end of my freshman year and after that my sophomore year we had still been dating and again i played soccer and basketball so a lot of my free time was spent practicing and studying.  i always tried to do really well in school so after that the summer of my sophomore year i remember my girlfriend at the time broke up with me and that was hard.  i guess i could say i was pretty depressed at that time and then i had changed schools.  i actually went to a public school for the first 2 weeks of my junior year and then me and my ex-girlfriend were talking and we ended up started dating again and she went to my old school so i changed my mind and my parents let me go back to the school i was at to finish off high school.  after that, so my junior year i could say that was probably the best year i had in high school cause i didnt really talk with much of my class but the senior class at the time i was really good friends with a lot of them and still am.
gain, i was in sports.  i didnt play basketball that year.  i played soccer and then me and a friend decided to play indoor soccer on our own, which really upset the school and uh because we were such a small school there was no basketball team that year.  no varsity basketball team that year because we decided not to play so we played indoor soccer and we really liked it cause we liked soccer more.  then going into my senior year that was my least favorite year of high school cause all of my friends had graduated and i was kind of stuck with a bunch of kids i really didnt like.  i did play sports.  i played soccer and basketball that year also.  we decided not to play indoor soccer that year so we did have a team.  the most eventful thing about that year was i ended up breaking my nose pretty severely.  i had to have surgery.  i remember that there wasnt any pain with the actual break but there was with the surgery.
that was uh i was pretty depressed i would say after that because i was just in bed for a couple weeks.  i got very sick afterwards cause of the antibiotics that they had given me so i had lost like 15 pounds in a month which was a lot for me cause i think i was only like 150 pounds at the time.  yeah so i hated that and then after id gotten better and everything, which was after christmas and stuff, i didnt play basketball again.  this happened pretty early on in the season so i didnt go back.  i just kind of did whatever after that.  it was my senior year so i didnt care.  i just wanted to graduate and then after that i decided i wanted to be a dentist and so i knew i needed to find a major in college, which i chose to be biology and came to xxx (college name).  i didnt have a lot happen in the first year of college.  it was pretty crazy though.  i remember the first day i attended a biology lecture and there were 400 students in one classroom and i graduated from a school of 4 so that was--where my class had 4 students.  the entire school had about 100 so that was a big change but i liked it.
ked having more students around and theres less one on one time but i dont know.  for some reason i liked the fact that you werent ever really singled out for anything.  then my sophomore year i decided i wanted to change my major to religious studies because i had taken a class my freshman year and i really liked it but i never really made the change.  i just took some classes and then the second semester of my sophomore year i decided that i would just stick with biology so i started taking biology classes again and i didnt do very well at first but later on i started doing better.  then my junior yearoh and also in my sophomore year of college my girlfriend had broken up with me.  this is the one i had been dating since freshman year of high school, which that was pretty devastating to me.  we were actually like i had completely forgotten we were engaged and she broke up with me and uh after that i kind of really didnt do anything.  i was definitely depressed at that time.  i would just want to go home and play video games or watch tv or do whatever, didnt really have much of a social life after that untiland that was in the winter break of my sophomore year and i didnt really have a social life until the summertime, which then i met my girlfriend that i have now during that summer.
we have been together since then.  that summer i remembered i liked to have fun a lot so i would go drink with friends and stuff all the time and once school started i stopped doing that.  so now its my junior year of college and nothingthat year was probably the least eventful year in college that ive had.  i just took the normal classes and i did okay in them and again i really didnt do much after that.  after my classes were done i never really did much, and then i guess you would call it my senior year, which was last year, again nothing much really happened other than i did move out of my parents house.  i moved to an apartment.  my girlfriend and i and my cousin and her boyfriend all were roommates but i ended up moving back to my parents house because they were moving to florida so i moved back there and currently live there with my girlfriend and then that takes me up to this year which is i guess my super senior year. 
hould graduate next semester and i mean i currently live with my girlfriend.  my parents live out of state, which is kind of hard especially the first few months cause me and my dad always spent time together and now we cant as much but thats pretty much it.
ection ii
well in the past 2 years, the only thing thats really happened is this past year ive had 3 family members die.  well one of them wasnt.  one of them was my girlfriends grandfather but it was pretty sudden so that was kind of upsetting and then my brother in law also died.  he had cancer and it wasnt as sudden though.  we knew pretty much a year in advance that he had only a year expectancy to live and then the most recent was my uncle.  my dads sisters husband died very suddenly.  he was actually going in to get a reverse colostomy and they said it was going to be pretty routine but he ended up getting an infection and died within a few days and that was probably the most traumatic of all.
i dont know uh definitely sad.  when my girlfriends grandfather died, that was pretty sudden and i kind of realized that death can be that way, sudden i mean.  i never thought of myself dying but at that time i kind of reflected and thought about it.
any type of distress?
well i guess when my girlfriend broke up with me for the second time that was equivalent but different.
when my girlfriend broke up with me?
can you repeat the question?
its pretty much the fact that i never thought of myself dying and i realized that eventually i will and that kind of upset me and just thinking about everybody i knew, all my loved ones and everything cause theyre eventually going to die and that bothered me.
i dont know.  i guess it was pretty much just time.  i made some realizations like i dont know uh being taught what i was taught in christian school i completely changed what i learned there and believe something completely different now so that kind of helped.
no i cant.
ection iii: change
i guess you could say kind of how i treat life i guess, more prone to take risks now i would say and like things that just like minor things that might take time.  even like standingi even read this in a book once but standing a couple minutes to even return an item to a grocery store if its not that much money why even waste the time because i kind of look at time being invaluable now.
i have to think of what really would have stayed the same uh i cant think of anything.
yeah, yeah i would say so.
oh at work yeah nothing changed there.
no not with that, definitely not.
no uh i guess going back to the previous question with social relationships i guess you could say i try to spend more time with my family now.  ive always spent a lot of time with them but now i do try to spend as much time as i can if im say invited to some kind of family event ill definitely go now as to before i might not have.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  did any of that change or stay the same?
not really.  i guess pretty much what i said before with the way i think.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?
i dont know uh with the first one i definitely have never been very emotional and i can say that that was probably the most emotional time in my life.  i found myself getting sad over silly things cause i would think about it but other than that nothing else.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time of crisis?
i mean i could always control it.  i would think about something else, something positive to get my mind off of it.
nobody else was affected i dont think.
i mean i could hide it pretty well so i dont think others really influenced me.
i dont know uh well i hope to have a career in the field of biology.   i would like to be more of a support staff person.  right now i kind of have a little bit of training with biology facilities and maintaining them so i would like to do something along those lines.  i would like to get married eventually and have kids, have a house, and thats pretty much it.
well i was born in xxx (town name), indiana.  its about a half hour from here and i lived in xxx (street court address name) until i was 7 with my parents then we moved to xxx (street name) and that was when i was in 2nd grade.  the summer between i moved there and i spent mosti had a park across the street that i spent a lot of time at growing up and uh i played a lot.  i started getting into video games.  when i was real little, i read a lot.  well i guess not real little but til about 5th or 6th grade i read all the time.  i was constantly reading books and i got a nintendo64 and played that quite a bit and got a ps2 and played a whole lot of ps2 during my summer.  i went to middle school in xxx (town name) and i still spent a lot of time out in the woods.  i spent a lot of time in the woods until i left my house.  i went to high school in xxx (town name).  
didnt really know what i wanted to do so i just kind of went through high school and my senior year i took a bunch of college courses and so thats about all i did senior year. then i started college here at xxx (school name).  oh i also had 2 dogs during that time i forgot about but i started college at xxx (school name) and then the summer between my freshman and sophomore year i moved into the house i live in now and thats about it.
ection ii
nothing i can think of.
probably school, just getting through mainly this semester has been difficult and moving out has been a little bit difficult on my family.
for me, probably school.
its been i guess pretty good overall.  i definitely had a lot of issues with school.  its been my most difficult semester.  it was definitely more difficult than all my high school and ive been trying to figure out how to live on my own and working a lot.  i work two jobs so to do school and that it always loads of fun so i guess the stresses from that but overall ive got a really good support system from my family and my roommates are really helpful.
probably when i was living with my parents and id get in trouble for different things and sometimes it was rather serious and like my dad and i would argue.  my dad and i didnt have a very great relationship when i was younger but as i grew older it improved but for a while i really didnt get along with my family at all.
probably just my classes and trying to get everything done on time and the main part was studying for tests.  i was able to do the classwork but tests were the most difficult part and concentrating and studying for tests.
ive just been going through school and i know im not going to fail any of my classes so thats been a plus and ive just tried to take it a step at a time and figure out different ways to study and the best way to maximize my time and still get the most benefit out of it.
probably.  ive had like when my first dog died, that definitely was not good.  i freaked out quite a bit.  i did not knowit was like my first death of somebody i actually really cared about and so that was really hard on me.
ection iii: change
i work at buffalo wild wings, and thats never been an issue.  over the summer and part of the summer i worked for xxx (college name).  i worked at the office of sustainability but that ended up falling through and i found out i cant work an office job and i cant work in front of a computer so losing that job was pretty stressful for me especially at the start of the semester and i had to find a new job really soon.  i started working for xxx (employer name) in xxx (town name).  i sell surplus housing supplies for them for stuff they buy and dont need and thats been a pretty easy job overall.  i know my boss is my friends dad and i work with him.
ive gotten a lot better with school and learning how to study and that makes studying easier because like if im not worrying about school all the time and i canthe way i work right now is i can basically sell things on craigslist so ive learned how to work with that and do my schoolwork and make it all line up.
well since ive moved out, not a lot.  its definitely improved.  my relationship with both of my parents has improved and since i dont live there anymore they dont have to deal with me so when i am there its a lot more pleasant and thats definitely gotten a lot better.  my girlfriend hasnt done too well with me moving out cause she still lives in xxx (town name) but she still comes to my house every now and then.  i spend the weekend with my parents so we still see each other and its definitely a lot better with my family than it was.
my familys become a lot more accepting about what i do now that im not underneath their roof.  as long as im not harming anyone, they really dont care what i do and as long as i can support myself and theyre willing to help me but as long as i can support myself and take care of myself they dont really care.
i dont see a lot of friends i used to because now i live in xxx (city name) and its a bit of a drive but the people i live with im pretty good friends with.  i live with a guy i met through school and a guy i knew from high school and that works out pretty well and i have a few friends come over and i met a few friends out in xxx (city name) but not a whole lot since a lot of my friends from xxx (town name) moved to xxx (city name) that i hang out with. 
i definitely learned a lot about how to work and how to like manage myself now that i have to pay my own bills and focus on that.  ive definitely learned how to just hold myself and be able to manage and ive learned like i cant work an office job.  before i thought id be able to.  ive definitely learned that and ive learned through working at xxx (employer name) and doing the selling things like communication skills and i enjoy that overall.
i still play video games a lot.  i still like to hang out with my friends and hang out.  im probably not as focused on school as i was when i was living with my parents cause i have a lot of other things going on but thats about it.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  whats changed over the past semester?
i dont really know on that one.  i guessim trying to think what all would have changed but i dont think a lot has changed just cause its been such a short time.  ive definitely become a lot more resilient just because ive gotten used to just taking care of myself and living where i do i just learned just to likewhen i lived in xxx (town name) it was like a nice suburb.  now i live on the south side of xxx (city name) so its not as nice of a suburb and ive definitely learned like how to just take care of myself and make sure my roommates are taken care of.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  whats stayed the same over the past semester?
most of them.  i mean i definitelythe relationship with my family is probably the biggest.  i get along a lot better with my family.  its a lot nicer when i see them.  i dont feel like im putting as much of a strain on them as i did when i lived with them and thats a lot better for me cause when i lived with them i felt like i was putting quite a strain on them.
how would you say about the way you think has changed over the past semester?
im definitely thinking about work a lot more than i used to because i always had to be worrying about making money and saving up enough to survive so thats definitely a lot higher priority and relationships like i have to worry about more with my girlfriend now that we dont live ten feet from each other and i have to make sure i see my family and i have to make sure my familys alright.
what about your thinking has stayed the same over the past semester?
i still want to go to college and i want to help people.  i still dont know how and i still dont know what i want to go to college for.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways has this stressful semester controlled your life?
chool has definitely taken more of a control than im used to.  i used to be able to just go to class and not do a lot of studying after and just be fine and ive definitely had to do a lot more studying than im used to and im really terrible at writing papers and i had a couple papers i had to write and that was definitely pretty stressful.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state over the past semester?
pretty well i feel.  im generally able to take care of myself pretty well and im used to like having to take care of other people so i was able to hold myself and make sure i kept myself together but its definitely been pretty difficult.
i guess my parents are a little sad about me moving out.  my girlfriends kind of sad about me moving out but other than that i dont think its affected too many people.  i havent changed that terribly much.
i guess im probably not as focused on school as i used to be because a lot of people i know arent in school and a lot of people i know that were i know people that graduate school and arent sure why they got their degree and thats definitely affected me quite a bit but i dont know.  i guess with the different people that ive met throughout the semester that changed like ive met a lot of people in xxx (city name) and ive made a lot of friends living down there and so just seeing different perspectives on life.  i dont know how theyve changed but ive definitely seen more.
i have no idea where im going.  im hoping to graduate college at some point in time.  i dont know what for but thats about all ive got figured out so far.
i was born in michigan so 1996.  parents lived there for i think 2 years, moved to new york.  i have no memory of michigan.  i have no memory of new york.  we moved to indiana for family.  my moms parents live here and my dads like now his entire family lives here cause we moved here and were the coolest so they want to be near us.  so i think i moved here when i was 3 uh i used to love superheroes.  i dressed up in like a superman costume like all the time.  i was either naked or in that costume so like my mom she bought two costumes so then i could always be wearing one so it would either be on me or in the washing machine.  i loved superman, superheroes.  i was by myself a lot.  i never had a lot of friends.  i was always more of a loner like when i was a kid i was always playing with action figures.  i wasnt outside doing anything.
went to preschool around 5.  i had like one friend but it was because like my moms best friend was with uh it was her kid, my moms best friends kid so i spent time with him.  first grade i guess i was 6.  i really dont have a great memory of elementary school.  second grade, i remember loving baseball.  i went through like a baseball phase.  im still a huge yankees fan, still love baseball.  when i was a kid, i wanted to be a major league baseball player like i mean who doesnt want to be an athlete?  they make tons of money, get all the women.  its a wonderful life.  third grade, dont really remember it.  the same with fourth and fifth; very little recollection.  i wasnt very nice to other kids i know that.  i would say i was a bully around second or third grade.  i was mean to other children, didnt really care.  i feel bad about it now but at the time i didnt really care.
ixth grade--that was probably my favorite school year.  i was into skateboarding, had some long hair.  that was like my little phase.  my sister, which i didnt mention yet, but big influence on me so like whatever music she was listening to i was listening to and like that kind of stuff.  she was into that kind of screaming music, that kind of stuff, so thats what i was listening to when i was skateboarding.  i had a couple of girlfriends, nothing real serious.  in seventh grade, i was real insecure because i hadnt gone through puberty and i was really embarrassed about it so like i didnt want to wrestle because i didnt have armpit hair; that kind of stuff.  i dont know.  in eighth grade, the same by myself because i was really embarrassed and really self-conscious.  i started going through puberty like freshman year so i was a late bloomer.
ophomore year is when things started to turn around, started making friends, and started doing stuff i guess.  i probably started smoking pot around that time.  thats really what got me friends was smoking pot.  my best friends were drug dealers.  xxx (first name) and xxx (first name), which i dont talk to anymore because im in college and i feel like since adults dont really smoke pot i should probably not be smoking pot but at thanksgiving i still got really stoned and ate a bunch of food because it was thanksgiving and i thought i should indulge.  so i was an every day smoker for probably junior year on until about the end of this summer.  ive always preferred marijuana over alcohol; that kind of stuff.  so now im here, now im in college trying to be a real person, trying to make money and thats the goal i guess.  alright so thats where im at.  life story in a couple minutes.
ection ii
the past two years?
okay so im 18.  at 16, alright there was a girl that i met like at a party and apparently my friend called dibs on this girl cause apparently you can do that.  i was very intoxicated, ended up with the girl, he wasnt very happy so we didnt talk for a while.  there was that.  dated that girl for, i dont know, a couple months and then she got back with him so like i just didnt talk to him for like a year but im friends with him again now cause no girl.  i dated a girl for i think two months and then she moved to xxx (city name) so that was pretty hard on me like we stayed together for a couple months but didnt really work cause she was in xxx (city name) and i dont know.  i care about that one, you know, still care about that one.  shes dating a different ex-boyfriend from indiana so not too thrilled with that but moving on.  id say those were probably the two biggest.
the most recent girlfriend.
yeah that one.
disappointed and angry.  im going to say the most prevalent emotion is anger.  anger and complacent is how i feel most of the time.  most of the time complacent.  i have two emotions so thats it.
no not really.  not that i can think of.  it was probably the hardest time.
the girl.  shes a little crazy but i like crazy so her.
till recuperating.  not done yet.  smoked a lot of marijuana.  i mean that helped i guess or at least i thought it helped.  it didnt really help.  it was a band aid.  it was a crutch so thats how i was trying to deal with it, just repressing it and not thinking about it cause like i just didnt talk to her.  i just straight up ignored her cause i didnt want to deal with it.  i wanted to move on but i was really unable to do that because i was repressing it and that kind of stuff.  do you want me to keep talking?
i dont.
a different girl that i cared about yeah.
ection iii: change
ive had the same job for two years now.  im a server at a hibachi sushi restaurant like im in my uniform right now cause i have to go to work right after this so ive stayed at the same place.  ive only had one job.  they hired me at 16 and im still working there.
yeah it stayed the same job.  i mean its been consistent.  my life has been consistent is what im saying.
i didnt really talk to my family about it.  ive always been really close with my mom and my dad and my sister like those are my three favorite people.  not in that order; sister, mother, dad.  thats probably the order uh so nothings really changed with them.  ive always been real tight with them and im going to stay real tight with them and thats the plan.
my relationship with them hasnt changed at all.
when i was with the girl, i didnt talk to my friends at all because i had her.  i didnt really need guy friends.  afterwards, once again i really dont talk about it.  i dont really like to think about it so why talk about it.  relationship with my friendsim still friends with them.  not the two drug dealers that i was friends with because i cut them out but my friend xxx (first name).  ive been friends with him since like i was 12 or 13 so i talk to him i guess.  my relationship with him hasnt really changed either.
we drink.  i mean thats really what we do.  we hang out.  we party.  i mean thats my relationship with him but like i like talking to him like even sober i like talking to him.  hes a cool guy.  theres a lot that i like about him that i would like to work on in myself.  hes very extroverted, very friendly, and very good with people so i try to take things that i observe from him and then apply them to myself.
because of the xxx (first name) girl yeah.  
well because of the xxx (first name) or because of the most recent girl that im talking about, the xxx (first name) girl.
i really havent had another one since so i cant give you a real answer to that.  i think she impacted me a lot, made me realize that i can actually love someone which i didnt really think i could before like i thought i could love my family but i didnt think i could find a girl and actually love her, you know,  so that changed that i could actually care about someone.
tayed the same now?
marijuana was real consistent.
well yeah i liked to smoke before that too.  i dont know yeah.
being able to be more open with a girl, you know, share feelings and that kind of stuff.  be in a serious relationshipthats really what taught me how to handle myself in a serious relationship and handle a woman in a serious relationship thats like wife material.
that i can keep on living however i want and not really care about how i affect other people but i dont think thats a good way to think so i dont want that behavior but thats what really kind of stuck with me from it.  that i can be a narcissist and treat people however i want, which i dont like.  i dont want to act that way but thats it taught me that i can.
yes but im working on that behavior.  im trying to change it.  its just difficult because we are all inherently slightly narcissistic.  we all look out for ourselves so yeah thats whats stayed constant i guess.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  what changed?
i stayed angry.  i stayed complacent and like i said earlier i feel like those are my two most prevalent emotions.  i guess i feel sadness sometimes too.  what was the question again?
what changed about your emotions?
it made me not want to care as much about a girl but i have a lot of conflicting thoughts, like a lot, like have you read 1984?  okay double think like i fully believe two different thoughts on multiple things.  i cant really think of an example.  i already forgot what i was talking about.  can i hear it again?
what changed about your emotions during this time of hardship with xxx (first name)?
that i didnt want to care.  that i dont want to care about a girl but i want to care about a girl so the part that changed is that i dont want to but theres still a part of me that does.  do you kind of get what im saying?  im being confusing.  i know im being confusing.
ts a tough question.
yeah sorry.  im trying my best.  im trying my best.
no youre doing great.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  what stayed the same during this period of hardship and after?
that i want to keep on caring about myself as bad as that sounds.
what about your cognition?  what changed about that or as a result of this hardship?
kind of what i said about the emotions really that i want to keep on trying to do the best for myself.
was there anything that changed in the way that you think?
because of the hardship or because of the relationship?  because of the hardship the way i thought really i mean it just made me angry.  it just made me uncontent with how it ended and how its finishing out, how its playing out.  im not content with how its playing out.  the relationship, like i said earlier, made me understand that i can care about someone else so it was positive in that aspect i think.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?
it was the main thing that i was thinking about so it was the main thing i was manifesting things in my life.  it was that i was upset that she was somewhere else and i was also somewhere else like i just wanted her to be here but she was obviously not so i mean i was mostly thinking about that.  that i wanted her there.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time of crisis?
probably not very well.  probably not very well.  i felt like i was in control but i dont reallyin retrospecti dont really feel like i was controlling the situation well because like its hard to control.  shes somewhere else.  im somewhere else.  theres not much you can do about it.  you can facetime but thats not the same as having the person there like long distance it just sucks.  it just sucks.  not something i want to experience again.
id say my parents probably.  they just had to put up with me.  i mean that was really it because like i said i dont really talk to a lot of people like i talk to my sister, i talk to my parents and xxx (first name) and people at work and thats really about it.  i mean i dont really involve myself in a lot of other people so the main people that were affected were my family and it was just cause i was pissy but ive always tried to do stuff around the house like cook and clean and pick up sticks cause we moved to like a giant farm so we have like 5,6 acres that has a bunch of trees so i mean i try to help out and so like i knew i was being pissy but i was trying to make up for it in other ways by cooking and that kind of stuff.
they mentioned xxx (first name) frequently because they really liked her so theyll like talk about stuff they see on facebook, cause theyre facebook friends with her, and so just like them mentioning it would agitate me but that was really about the extent of other people impacting it besides her.
i want to make money, like i said earlier.  thats why im here so a nice job, hot wife that i like, nice house, nice car, preferably not in indiana but yeah thats what im thinking so thats what id like.  thats where im at but its hard to predict whats going to happen like i have no idea whats going to happen.  i have no idea what the next 5 years of my life are going to be like which is equally terrifying as it is awesome so im hoping it plays out nice and i think it will as long as you have a positive attitude about it i think it will work out.  i think a positive attitude is very important, very important to be optimistic.
no im good.
well i started out i was born, obviously, just like everybody else.  the earliest event i can even remember really is just being in my house as a baby, playing with like little blocks and stuff, nothing too fancy.  the next significant memory i had was i was playing on a lake of ice with my friend and i accidently fell through and him being the nice guy he was he ran away and i had to actually pull myself out of the ice and i sort of like saved myself so i was only like 6 when that happened and i was just drenched, covered in icy cold water.  that was pretty significant.  first day of school; pretty easy.  i was always pretty good at school.  it was always pretty simple so all the way through elementary school i went to a little private school.  there wasnt a lot of kids in there so all of us were pretty close as a group and just every time there was a new student or something we sort of, not to be mean or anything, but we were like discriminative.  
thats just how we grew up though since there was only a little bit of us and it was like that all the way through 8th grade in school and then in high school i ended up going to xxx (high school name), which was like a huge school.  it was a huge transition for me like really different.  i mean i had like still a few friends like i did before but i had trouble making tons of friends there because it was so overwhelming.  i actually ended up transferring out of there to xxx (high school name) the next year cause my grades were really bad and my parents thought it was because of that so they just switched me over and that was a little bit smaller school, out in the middle of nowhere, which is another complete opposite transition from a city school to a country school and this was a school where like some of the kids would actually come to school on tractors.  it was that country orientated.  
throughout all this, i played sports all the way through middle school.  i was pretty good at all that.  i played just about everything except football and especially baseball i was really good at.  other than that, in my spare time i played a lot of video games, a lot of video games, and i took a big interest in playing guitar and drums throughout high school.  ive been playing for ab out 8 years now on the guitar and after that i started attending xxx (college name) for a couple years and now im taking this psychological exam for research participation.  im not sure if that was detailed enough.
i mean i could add little things here and there all day but i think thats pretty much the overview of the whole process.
ection ii
actually yes.  about a year ago, i had like a mental breakdown kind of and i just stopped attending all my classes and i ended up failing just about every class that semester.  my psychologist saiduh not psychologist it was like a shrink.  im not sure what theyre called.  that personthey said it was something like wave of depression or something like i could barely get out of bed and stuff and like all my grades were really bad like my dad had cancer at the time and it was just really difficult.  that lasted about 3 months.  i think it was last winter, all through that, and that was really hard and ever since then they put me on a couple different medications that helped me through that but now thats over thankfully.
yeah thats fine.
uh kind of illogical.  a lot of my thoughts were just complete like i had negative views of everything no matter what it was.  even if i did something good i was like oh it was only because of this or whatever, you know, everything just sucked no matter what and it was like i had no energy or anything so my mental state was very worn out and like hopeless kind of.
other than that, i dont think so.  that was probably the worst thing thats ever happened in terms of that.
i would say the grades had a lot to do with it but it was also my dads cancer had a lot to do with it i think too and i just wasnt feeling great that time of year and a lot of it was sleep schedule too.  it was kind of a snowball cause i ended up doing a lot of things that were further pushing me into it like drinking a lot and staying up all night, not doing anything all day and just laying around.  that never helps so i mean everything sort of contributed to that happening.
i dont know actually.  it lasted a while.  it just sort of gradually went away.  i ended up signing up for school again the next semester, despite recommendations to wait and i ended up doing pretty good at the beginning so that helped a lot and just sort of improved from there.  but nothing really in particular seemed to cure it by any chance.  i think the medication may have helped some but that was more of like a cover-up type of thing for it rather than a cure.
i guess if enough horrible things were to happen i would definitely have another mental breakdown.  hopefully i wouldnt go completely crazy but its possible, you know, hopefully not like a schizophrenic episode or anything but who knows.
ection iii: change
well during this i had sort of given up on everything so i was sort of participating in school at first but by the end of it i had just completely stopped showing up to all of my classes except for one that was really easy and i could get through that one easily but the rest i just completely gave up on and i didnt have a job at the time so other than that i really didnt do anything, just wasted time.
that one class i put the same amount of effort into but the rest was like the opposite you could say.
my friends definitely noticed.  they said i needed to slow down on all the drinking and everything cause that was becoming kind of a problem.  i didnt really go out during the day at all cause i was just sleeping in until like 5 in the afternoon usually, which was another part of why i only attended that one class cause it was at like 6 at night and all the other ones were during the day.  but yeah like with my family and everything they were wondering why i wasnt doing anything anymore and its pretty obvious i was having issues at the time.
well when i was hanging out with my friends, i was still pretty much the same cause thats when i was not super depressed.
well we still did the same stuff we always did and had a good time.
i became way more of a negative person at the time, just in general about everything.  i used to like have a more optimistic view about things but it definitely switched a lot.  it just got really dark and depressing at the time.
ive still been kind of eccentric all the time about certain things and i still was like i would still be off the walls at some points and i dont think that will ever change no matter what so that was definitely there throughout the whole process.
during your mental breakdown, what change about your cognition, your thinking or your emotions?  
my thinking changed a lot in fact i think i was going crazy.  some of the thoughts that went through my mind like they made sense at the time but looking back it didnt make any sense whatsoever like i was convinced that everyone hated me for no reason like i would do something and i was convinced like that was the worst thing in the world and like no one does that only i did that or im a horrible person for doing that and i would just like hear things too.  like it was that bad.  i would overhear things too and i would just assume everyone was talking bad about me and stuff and maybe they were but i dont think so all that going on.
they all got kind of flat actually, almost like they werent even there.  i mean i wasnt really as sad.  i was mostly just like empty.  i wasnt anything.
just about nothing actually.  none of my normal thoughts were there.  i was a completely different person up in my head so and everything sort of got scrambled around.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did your mental breakdown control your life?
like a lot.  i was barely able to function at all during that time cause like i said i was in bed a lot.  i was just too lazy to get up.  i would just sit there and watch tv and not move at all.  i think at one time i was in there for like 2 days straight.  i got up like 3 times i think just cause i just didnt care, you know, so a lot.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during your mental breakdown?
well i never really tried to control it i dont think.  it just sort of happened and i just went along with it.  it never really even crossed my mind to change it or even that i could so i just kind of went with it even though i hated it.  it just sort of happens.
well my parents were very concerned.  thats why they sent me to the psychological doctor to see what was happening.  my friends were concerned, not so much that i was going insane cause they always thought i was a little insane but it was mostly about just the activity i was doing.  they were a lot more riskier than they normally would have been just cause i cared less so i just stood and whatever like no caution at all.
actually not at all.  im very hard headed so during this, no matter what anyone said it didnt help at all.  it just sort of went in one ear and out the other.  i was just convinced what was in my head was how it was.
in relation to this or?
well hopefully that wont ever happen again.  im doing a lot better in school now so hopefully it will only get better from there, just to finish my degree and hopefully finish my music albums too.  thats been a work in progress for a long time and it takes longer than youd think so yeah.
i hope me and my girlfriend work that out too.  i hope i have an awesome time the rest of my life, just in general.
okay uh chapter one uh early years. uh i was born in mariette georgia were i lived the first five years of my life uh not much. uh not too many memories due to being pretty young. uh only a few vague memories of playing with friends in the neighborhood uh a few memories of going to school. my preschool teacher her name was xxxx (name) she was the best. uh after that dads first job so we moved up to cincinnati ohio . uh when i was about five and a half years old uh there my parents pulled me out of school and i uh began being homeschooled alongside all my siblings. uh from that point uh i spent a couple years mostly just until i was about eight just doing my school. i had a few friends. i was not really involved with a church or any sort of organization uh i attended church with my family. uh born and raised catholic uh from the then around age eight uh age eight or nine i started playing sports. uh through the rest of elementary and middle school i played football basketball ultimate frisbee uh and just general i would go swimming i would go hiking uh camping whenever possible, i had a lot. and then in the 8th grade uh moved here to indianapolis, began uh this was at the semesters divide in the eighth grade i uh then found a homeschool cooperative called xxxx (name) uh were uh about it was about 180, 190 students were in there from 7th to 12th grade with me and have uh its essentially a time class half a week in place of more traditional homeschooling which took place at home. mostly kind of just tutor and guided by my own mother uh and then in high school i narrowed it down to only football and basketball as far as sports go. uh the not as i was just doing school through sports i sustained a few minor injuries uh such as a number of concussions uh that that combined with a minor knee injury during my sophomore year of high school uh caused me to hang up the cleats and stop playing football uh. which was a rare and important part of my life i should have not up to that point. eat, sleep, breath, football uh try playing basketball for another year or two, uh got another few likely undiagnosed concussion uh or undiagnosed but likely were concussions you know got hit in the head id feel dizzy for a little bit after or uh football is kind of similar with this sensation unfortunately uh at that point uh right after i finish playing sport uh i started dating uh a girl for the first time. that went on, that was unusual uh dating her. uh it was kind of an unhealthy relationship, caused me a lot of uh to kind of introvert a lot the second half of high school uh i ended up placing a higher focus on academics and backing away from a lot of social sports type uh environments as a result of being in a relationship with her. uh we broke up end of junior year, high school uh just kind of let alone got a job working at xxxx (name) uh between junior and senior year of high school uh by the end of summer i was working as a manager for that store. uh up in fishers, indiana in 116 and olio uh i did that for about a year. uh and i just continued through my senior year of high school i started dating another girl uh after about a year after girlfriend number 1. uh who encouraged me to be more social and get back out uh get a little bit more outgoing kind of positive softback that uh i had when i was playing sports and things like that and was kind of uh being i was getting back on track with that uh and then at the end of, i graduated from high school. uh came to iupui a year ago, a year and half ago enrolled in bridge program so i was here two weeks early, moved in, lived in the tower uh the seventh floor. uh i watched a fraternity uh and then since then mostly been the same day to day living just go to class maybe hanging out with couple guys every now and then uh i make semi frequent trips back up to fishers were my family lives. uh got a lot of little siblings so i like to make sure im kind of around as they are growing up not just kind of some big older brother they have. uh and then during fall semester uh towards the end i started to kind of feel, less bright is the word i can really get it out uh and i had been for years. ive always kind of struggled with fluctuating moods and my parents just always told me it was just part of me in high school so i kind of blew it off and then in college uh it started to back in freshmen year and in spring semester started building uh stopped going to class as much. uh started rather than continuing my homework i was just cramping the night before just to pass my classes. uh then yeah i just spent most of my time just in my room at the tower. uh watching netflix i would go to class if there was a test or a quiz, not really turn in homework or just to be in lecture. uh and then all several of my friends i had made through bridge so my closes friends in college had all either transferred or dropped out of school uh between semesters and so i didnt really have a lot of friends who i was in regular contact with i was kind of in this negative cycle im already feeling down and feeling off and no one helped me pull out of it and then in the summer i worked in an internship uh at xxxx (name). uh i worked in the project management division uh i directly worked directly alongside the director where i worked on all sorts of different projects for this company uh which is really cool to i didnt find out until almost the end of my internship, its a fortune 500 company. uh but because its so private it doesnt get a lot of publicity its not really in the news uh because of the stocks, i dont how that works but uh so i got to work a lot with uh c level executives and a lot of directors and vps of different departments. uh and that was, it uh that helped me get out of my box just being in a work and being in a routine and having to be there every day at 8 oclock. uh being able to put in perspective of having to work of having to work under these c level executives it was cool it changed my perspective in a lot of things, kind of humbled me, kind of fine-tuned were im looking out in my life and where im like trying to work towards. uh and then come fall semester 4 class loads 17 or 18 credit hours uh oh by the way i didnt even mention im studying physics right now came into uh college studying mechanical engineering, transferred out of that after fall semester because uh just my sister worked in lab uh the respiratory no pulmonology research lab at the xxxx (name) hospital and uh so she got me introduced to a couple people including a doctor going through his residency. i believe uh now hes completed it, doctor xxxx (name) uh who was trying to talk to me about medicine and being a doctor so i switched to bio physics from mechanical engineering so i can get my pre requisites to get out of my way. so thats what i choose to go with the end of my under graduate, uh ill be at least set up where i can be eligible for it. uh and so now fall semester uh 4 class load, you know physics, math, uh computer science course and chemistry uh and its going im super productive. at this point im are brush/recruitment chair for my fraternity so im really active for the first three or four weeks of this semester, im being almost painfully outgoing because its something ive never done in my life. im talking to all sorts of people uh getting closer with people who ive known for a while but just havent really uh been in contact for a while not just presence. so working with a committee and then after that sort of dies out i sort of just and the variable of school it started to uh to creep back again and i started to feel off again. uh go through about november im not going to classes, ive slept through a test or two uh lucky one of my professors worked with me so that i can take my midterms for a class later in the day rather than fail. uh and i realized that maybe you know this wasnt just a fun maybe there is something going on and when im not attentive to it uh it becomes uh more impactful more uh acute uh in my day to day with life. uh i got to a doctor he diagnoses me with something he said it wasnt bipolar uh gave me medicine gave me add medicine for depression uh and then going to this semester its all working wonderfully. im going to all my classes im practicing my homework im doing well on all my test uh finally to a point in my undergraduate career where i can start trying to build a report with my professors uh unless im a teacher student uh hopefully in a professional level and personal to an extent uh and that kind of leads me where i am today. alright hopefully that wasnt too or too little detail.
anything else i wanted to add. uh would it be useful to describe kind of like my normal day to day personality or something like thats. aside from what i was talking about with all the uh because other than that i dont think theres anything else id like to add.
if thats important or relevant. uh im usually a pretty quiet guy. uh like to tell storys so ill usually talk a lot if i get on the topic about something thats happened to me or something that ive learned uh but in conversation im usually pretty straight forward straight to the point uh not big on small talk uh lazy, sign is an aries. uh i like to care for people i like to take uh vested interested in peoples lifes when im, interacting with them a lot uh i wouldnt categorized myself as more on the selfless side but i like to think of myself as a think about more about others needs before my own. uh yeah thats 
uh and you said one situation or any?
okay uh i would say that uh really the majority of the entire of last calendar year uh and you said in relation to a specific event? correct?
okay
uh id say defiantly the last calendar year. uh balancing whatever it was going in my head with uh friendships familiar relationships uh my activity in school uh stuff surrounding my, my spiritual side my faith and things. uh spent most of my time kind of ambiguous anxious and with anxiety uh because i didnt what was going on and so i didnt know how to fix it so everything was starting to move slowly downhill and uh caused a really patchy amount interaction me and parents and me and my current girlfriend. uh and for in my class caused my grades and my relationships i had built with professors before last year on to bottom out uh yeah i spent all my time kind of feeling anxious and really and because of that because i didnt know it was wrong it was it broken and so uh it caused a lot of insecurity and when i uh someone who is pretty quiet my confidence sparrows a lot of my ability to kind of interact normally goes with it uh caused me to lose my scholarship because my grades had slipped. i went from a 3.5 my first semester in college and then i think between spring semester and last semester was like a 2.6 which wasnt enough to keep my scholarship. uh yeah its just i spent this whole year kind of in this, kind of just felt ambiguous uh everything when someone was just even making a joke id just always feel on the defensive it always made me feel like when they make a joke like uh my shoes my shoes are kind of gross maybe even if im i dont know, i dont even know if thats happened but its just the kind of thing on the day to day when even just people joking around and uh and in the past growing up coming in from the family im one of seven boys uh you know rough humor its just kind of was and then in the last year it was uh yeah it just something about me i couldnt handle it, take it, i couldnt give it, i couldnt take it, i couldnt uh yeah i think i just [inaudible]
it was, it was on and off uh through ever since i was a little kid uh but it was never more than just like maybe in the evening i would feel antisocial or i wouldnt want to go to class because i wouldnt want to interact but that was that was very spotty until uh about last january.
uh almost instant i literally a day before classes started it was like the 10th or the 11th uh i felt really anxious about going to class the next day and i dont know why. i still remember calling my mom and saying, hey i need someone to talk to like i was super anxious about tomorrow uh and i dont know why i only got one class and im worried about going to it, uh and then from then on it was just kind of a constant on the way down. 
yes
anxious, worried, sad, unmotivated, apathetic to an extent uh in the sense when i would mess up i would it wouldnt worry me that id messed up or done something wrong or uh i try to be polite person and i would characterized during that period of time i tend to worry much whether i was offending someone or whether i was uh dressed well or whether i was being presentable. uh i neglected my hygiene but in terms the way i dressed and the way i composed myself. uh i tend to not worry about it. 
maybe in chance instances uh never continuously. maybe there was an event i also had, i uh through middle and high school i had really bad anxiety and so i had anxiety attack all the time uh and so uh once a month i might have one instance where like i have, had and anxiety attack but id never had a uh a continuous presence of that distress before.
in my mind uh i think pressure. uh though i did marginally well in my classes. uh all a minuses and bs, b plus uh. i felt that that wasnt good enough and so i was trying to work harder and i think that i over psyched myself i was uh that combined as i mentioned earlier uh several of my closest friends i had school left iupui so i think its those two factors are what triggered it.
uh i think admitting there was an issue. uh i still remember it was like second or third week of november. it was right before thanksgiving uh it was actually the wednesday before thanksgiving i just woke up that morning i had slept through a quiz that i really needed to do well on uh and i just called my mom and said, hey can you schedule me a doctor ive been uh i think i think i need to talk to a professional about stuff. uh and then i think it was mostly being able to uh communicate and being able to find support from my family i think was uh i think it was really got it. i mean there were other things, i started focusing more on my diet and uh being a little more active and much more social and uh and focusing and i found that helping people uh at least of a short period of time helped me, helps me get out of the funk even if its just for an hour uh i would say largely it was mostly just finally talking to some having you know youre not broken its just something we can fix. i think its the largest factor but 
i could. uh, i think uh probably it had to be something pretty substantial uh. i would that uh probably a death of one my sibling or my parents uh i think would, i think would be substantial enough for me to uh for that to start back up. uh im sure if i stopped long enough i could think of dozens of impactful things that could do that. in terms of non-drastic things uh i would think that uh saying some one that respected me say a professor or uh maybe my dad or uh a close a friend came to me and said, you know i really dont think are as good as you think you are in such area. i think that would uh not necessary not like one day shoot but i think it would a serious of events that would that would kind of cumulate in it.
ection iii: change
okay
uh, so ill perfecit that uh that when i came into college i was admitted into the honors college here at iupui uh which is why i chose to come here. there honors college came with the biggest scholarship uh and so during fall semester and through high school i was, i was academic, i was, i was religious by making sure i had my homework done. uh i had to get all as, i had like a 3.98 or 96 in highs school. uh, i studied well for my ct and sat did well on those. uh, i liked to be an active participant, i like to know my teachers well uh in high school there was one teacher i got to travel to germany with whos my social studies teacher. uh, and we are still to this day actually friends uh and then after this started happening i like i didnt even go up to any of my professors. uh, drive my first ap class and introduced myself i didnt uh i didnt really care about deadlines i, if i got a c or on the test or something i was like, oh well make it up on the next one, knowing that i wouldnt try hard enough to make it up on the next one. uh, i actually i also did have a part time job for two and a half weeks. uh, and just by being up almost ideal inter level i was hardworking focused i liked to uh i like to leave my work place better than what i found it. uh, and i, i left only after two and a half weeks of work during this time because i wouldnt show up to my shift on time i was found i was talking to my manger on leave and i knew i shouldnt be focusing my time on working because clearly somethings off. uh, but yeah i mean before that i was the employee who tried to stay longer if there was a task that needed to be done, yeah.
i still understood the importance of it. uh i never lost track of why i was in school, i never lost track of uh why i should work. uh, it was just that, it wasnt that i viewed them as optional it was that i viewed them as of a lesser degree of importance in terms of performance in those areas. it was mostly my performance and not the idea behind why i should perform as inactive.
uh, cognition what was different uh things, i started viewing, i started approaching in the negative uh. uh, lets say in the past i uh feeling unsure, insure about something uh i always think you know why should i feel insecure. you know i got here the pros heres the oh why im just thinking that but during this his period of time when uh i would think maybe im not actually uh cut out for the college thing maybe i should just drop out and go to work, it wouldnt be, no why shouldnt i should stay in college start viewing as why. uh drop out school why shouldnt i just uh focus on what are likely of a blue collar career uh and it wasnt about me feeling an interest about those it was uh more about uh sticking with my goals and ambitions and to be more like why i have those ambitions uh. i, im trying to think of how to put it, uh oh not sure on how to describe it uh i would almost experience more like emotions or feeling of once it was like i had this increase process of different feelings uh or increase load. in the past i attended to be pretty compartmentalized like if i was having a bad day i wouldnt, it wouldnt like it wouldnt be taken out on someone or i wouldnt uh if i was like angry about something and something happen that would, that was more like a sad or something like that or something that was positive it would uh thinks wouldnt pile up i was able to you know get mad about this, ill get sad about this later or im sad about this now i dont have time to be mad or things like that uh. kind of like the flood gates bust opened during that time. uh, i stated viewing things in more like how can i take a short cut uh whats the easiest of doing everything and anything uh. for example i like i was going oh like not attending class i might as well mostly switch nocturnal uh study and do anything i need to get done at 10 oclock at night to 8 am rather than vice versa then sleep until 4 or 5, eat. uh, wheres in the past its work on the bottom and work your way up uh if you cant do it right you shouldnt be doing it or if you couldnt do it right id work until it was right rather than planning ridiculously everything in my life. that was the major differences.
yes, uh though the way i thought about things changed the way i approached thing, i still tried to approach things more intellectually rather than emotionally. uh, i still experience the same range of emotions its not like because i was feeling down all the time it wasnt like there was a limit on how happy i could feel or like how joys or how angry or how mentally i still had a normal range its just i stayed more in one area uh. uh, i never lost romantic interest in my girlfriend even though i was constantly like wondering you know should we be in a relationship yada, yada, yada uh. emotionally like i never fundamentally changed the way i felt about her or her presence in my life its just what changed what changed was more my insecurity about the situation.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did those feelings, so what happened in january, control your life?
pretty majorly uh there wasnt really an area in my life that wasnt at least touched by it uh yeah. id say it was most areas.
uh, it limited what i could do. uh, i mean being a freshman an undergrad the world is mine to claim. its when i supposed to be making my reputation and building a report and making networking and making connections and building friendships developing myself uh i kind of put a stopper in the bottle or the uh i lost track of my train of thought uh. could you repeat the questions again? 
okay uh yeah it uh it eliminated uh a lot of opportunities at that point i needed to be working towards an internship and research opportunities and uh a lot of my minimum gpas so this time by causing my academic failing, not failing but a lack of success uh it, it interfered with my ability to being developing myself professionally uh. the one the internship that i did get uh i got through connections uh a close family friend uh knew a lot of people personally higher up in the company uh and kind of found a spot where the manager uh not important basically. the only reason that wasnt affected because uh other things going on in my life werent impacting that uh. yeah i think that uh the way impacting was eliminating my ability to uh excel. 
to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during last january?
uh i would say not poorly but certainly not well uh. 
how were others affected by your mental state during that time?
o uh my family aside uh i stopped building relationships with them i started arguing a lot with my parents. i mean i got six younger siblings at home uh that my parents have to worry about and i came home over the summer and was a negative thing that impacted my siblings that way. uh, even though my attitude towards my siblings never changed uh with uh my romantic, my romantic relationships uh or relationship rather uh on and off and then it made unsure about where we stood and then in turn it gave her a lot of anxiety and stress uh. uh, i mean i worked with uh honors uh through my honors classes i worked one on one with a lot of professors. though it didnt i dont think there was something, and i wonder what happened with xxxx (name) at the time there were constantly emailing me and approaching me when i was in class saying whats going on, why are you, why are your grades slipping, why arent you in class this and uh so i added some degree of difficulty to my professors work uh. i stopped being involved with my fraternity so haven taken on a leadership role prior uh it affected the functionality kind of the business side of the fraternity because i remember that we did a piece of the puzzle was suddenly missing and they werent able to replace it uh. i probably made my roommate mad because i never left the room so we probably uh also had to uh i dont know kind of deal with more proximity than we should have. hes not a guy who likes proximity, hes an interesting guy but uh yeah.   
how would others influence your mental state at the time?
uh in terms of direct influence or like they were where trying to be involved with it or they uh just my interaction with them affected it? or can i just answer yes?
o how did others influence your mental state at the time?
uh so by influence by proximity uh not much but thats because i minimized uh most in person interactions uh so say one of my friend was a positive influence and someone i could have benefited from being involved with or something like that i was wasnt getting that because i wasnt being involved with them in terms of direct influence i never articulated it or really got it out there to talk to people about it so uh if there were someone who were trying to directly influence it they wouldnt have known uh. i would say though that uh by more observing so one of the, so the president of the fraternity of the time was also an ra at the tower where i lived so uh i got to watch him a lot have a lot of small talk with him just seeing him around uh hes one of those type a type. so there was a small degree of inspiration so it was one of the few things that had me from trying to pass all my classes uh. that and my ra he got accepted to medical school and so watching him succeed also made me want to stay, if not involved being at the level of being a doctor at least to the level of being successful.
what do you see ahead of yourself in the future? 
right now uh a lot like i said uh still pretty recently of the still kind of optimistic, the world is my oyster, phase uh. there is still a chance, i did the math, if succeed to a certain level i can still hit the gpa requirement for medical school. uh, with were i need to land in my graduation uh so in a 100% perfect world it would be that. realistically, probably pursuing in uh something in physics uh specifically biology physics uh my physics professor doctor xxxx (name) he uh he works in a lot of labs here in the bio physics department and uh and im so im kind of using him as kind of like an architype perusing that and i also love to teach and so but ill become a doctor but i it would still be cool to become a professor you know uh positive uh my girlfriend who was my girlfriend at the time its better than ever its all looking positive going together and together patched and repair friendships and relationships, or at least the gradual process of doing that. uh, i just started, just yesterday i had interview for tutoring position through the indy learning centers uh so im really hoping i can have some sort of long term involvement with that program because its really cool. yeah thats kind of the bullet point.
nything else you want to add?
anything else i want to add, future. i dont think so.
i grew up in xxx (town name), indiana until dad went to jail then went to xxx (town name), indiana and went to school there til 12th uh well until i graduated then i came here.  now im here.
not really.
ection ii
i was hanging out with my buddies and we were doing stupid stuff and my buddy had a seizure and i had to drive him to the hospital and talk to his parents and my parents.
i was freaking out.  i was yelling at everybody, telling them to shut up and i was just not myself.  i dont know how to describe it.
no.
uh he had a sleeping disorder so he was on ambien all the time.  i think thats what caused it but i dont know what else could have caused the seizure.
my buddy having a seizure.
next day, i waited at the hospital all night and he was fine.  he went home and i gave him a hug and he was fine after that.
maybe a death in the family or uh a close friend dying or something.  thats it.
ection iii: change
when he had a seizure, my parents pretty much cut me off so it made it harder to go to school because i had to pay for everything for myself but i did it so its alright.
im not sure how to answer.
not really.
my parents cut me off and im on my own.
no me and my friends are still fine.
yeah me and my friends still stayed the same.  even when he had the seizure, we had the same relationship.
definitely i wasnt happy anymore as to when i was before he started freaking out.  i was just afraid my buddy was going to die.
no.  i was completely different while he was having the seizure.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  what changed?
i went from happy to sad and kind of angry.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  what stayed the same?
yeah im still the same.  nothings really changed anymore.
o during that time was there anything specific you think that stayed the same about the way you think or your emotions?
uh i mean yeah i thought on my feet.  as soon as he had a seizure, i drove him straight to the hospital.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?
i dont think it ever really controlled my life.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time of crisis?
i had three other friends with me as well and i was the only one keeping my cool cause i was driving and they were freaking out.  they were laughing in the backseat and i was telling them all to shut the hell up and even when i got pulled over, cause i was doing like 90, i told the cop that my buddy was having a seizure and i was taking him to the hospital and he just needs to get over it and he just said okay and let me go.
well my friends were probably pretty mad at me for yelling at them but other than that i dont really care.
his parentshaving to talk to them.  they definitely made me more upset than i was, even when he was having the seizure.
i see uh a bachelors degree and joining the air force and having a wife and some kids and growing old and thats it.
the story of my life uh the story starts out uh i was born in xxx (city name), indiana in 1996 and i lived in a small town called xxx (town name) my entire life up until this year.  i lived in a single parent household for most of my life and just spent a lot of timei dont know.  the story of my life thats such an odd question uh i guess it really is saying much that i lived in a small town 18 years of my life because that was my perspective of things.  my perspective of really life was very general and small and condensed into this little pocket and you knew everyone, you knew everyones name, there wasnt a coffee shop to go to, there wasnt a theater to go to.  you just had like a mcdonalds or burger king and most of the time i spent as a kid i was in boy scouts and cub scouts and all that stuff so i would spend a lot of time outside.  we lived most of my life 5 miles away from the state park so a lot of the time as a kid going camping with other guys my age and getting outdoors and uh trying to have fun that way.
but in a single parent household i grew up with my mother mostly.  i have a sister and shesim almost 2 years older than her and i also have two brothers, which are 8 and 10 years difference.  i say uh my life has also been very family oriented, not as in some people will meet and have their whole extended families and theyll know all their cousins and stuff but i remember each and every christmas or easter.  it would be my family, my siblings, my mother, my grandparents who lived down a block from me, and then my two aunts and my uncle which were from my one grandparents side so i really grew up seeing just mainly one side of my family and difficult childhood, most definitely.  we most of the time never had any money and the community i lived in, you know, most people had something and then thered be a large pocket of people who live in xxx (neighborhood name) or big country clubs.  
there were was definitely a huge disparity of what i would see in my family and from what i would see in my perspective of what id see going on in the town so living, growing up in my town i just didnt share a lot of the characteristics or perspectives of what other people saw.  i neveri had opportunities still to grow up downtown.  i wasnt in a bad neighborhood or anything but there were definitely times when my life or childhood was just scary bad but, you know, but for now last year i was uh reallymy senior year of high school was when i was really coming into contact with my dad and i moved in with him and been starting to get to know the other family and stuff and recently ive been realizing theres just so much more than what i saw before and its sometimes upsetting knowing that the first 17 and 1/2 , 18 years of your life were just in this little tiny pocket of people or attitudes and most of them are wrong.  
had a family who was definitely still a little bit racist and intolerant and unaccepting of other peoples attitudes than their own and that still affects me today, even though  ive known my whole life that ive never been that way at all but uh i dont know.  the story of my lifethe story of my life is something that i guess now because a lot of my childhood was what i view as maybe not worthless but something that i dont really need to think about too much or bring up because i guess at this point in my life its not progressive.  its not something i look back on and reminisce or whatever.  most of my good memories come from the last few years of my life but for now i take, as clich as it sounds, taking the experiences from my past, all the bad stuff, and making some good out of it and making some good out of it and seeing what i can do as a person to become a better person myself and like myself and for other people.  thats what collegethats what moving out, moving away from all that really meant to me was just that and thats really how i view life now. 
guess before it wasnt such that way but i really didnt share different perspectives of life and things and now im just trying to set out as much as i could to just understand as much as i could and being as accepting as i could and try to help at every twist and turn because its a coming of age thing but i guess in a nutshell i can go life story uh you know grew up in a small town my whole life, just my family, pretty close knit, didnt have a lot of money.  i grew up with just a lot of blatantly incorrect perspectives, a lot of abuse, lots of it and now its just like im trying to make something of it because i dont want to become the past of what ive seen and i guess luckily if theres any luck involved in it it happened to me as a kid and not as an adult where as an adult i can possess this power to change something or make a difference or change my attitudes or change other peoples attitudes or if i have kids to not do it to my kids and to take something from the past and produce something good out of it.  but thats really it.
ection ii
of course and i dont think it derives from any of those general things.  its like itll be a mashup of different things that maybe something hits me, some memory, or just whatever.  just something hits me and then maybe some distress plays into it and when that happens i usually close myself off, which is not the type of person i am, and then i get hit with a major wave of depression and that actually just happened recently just a few weeks back and im getting over it and i feel fine now but thats just yes.
painful uh every twist and turn id experience panic attacks or see myself shaking.  i would feel at times incredibly numb so it affected me physically and when it affects me physically thats when i started closing off or i dont do what or im not doing what im aspiring to do.  it might just stop just like that and thats what happened recently.  thats what happened recently.  two weeks ago i had to take a break from work and classes and i just did things that were therapeutic to me and it worked.  it worked because if i didnt take that break who knows where id be right now.  i probably wouldnt be secure enough to come in and have this interview or something but it just happens.  it just happens and it usually is a result of not being around people, which has been a lot this semester in particular.
this has to be a cause of it.  i never really knew how difficult it would be getting around in the winter without a car or really knowing anyone that has a car and living off campus.  some days id be walking for two hours or just walking to class and back or id have to get to work and work is 4 miles away from where i live so id have to hop on my bike and go on a sheet of ice *laughs* and justit was so much more difficult and uh just not even to going to each activity, each amount of work and it would just be dreadful and that was the start of it and not being able to participate or go anywhere as a result of transportation that really was a part of it.  id like to think its not but it was and thats something thatll be fixed in the future.  i know what i need to do not but that was just part of it.  other parts of it were trouble with family, just not having contact with them or have all contact be bad and just not being able to like experience anything other than my own mind and when i get clogged up in my own mind i insert things that shouldnt be inserted and thats what causes it.
yeah several times, several times.  its pretty much the same thing yeah.
i mean the stress its really just uh, you know, not having any connection with anyone like and just being closed off and then theres this questioning self-worth thats questioning what youre doing or if it matters and if you matter and just it just scaffolds down until you hit a very bad stage, which i have twice and the second time was just a few weeks ago but now its just uh the first time it happened it took me like back in high school it took me about 4 or 5 months to recover just completely on my own and this time i had a better understanding myself.
i mean how i recuperate is just looking outward towards the future and looking at my resources and going to them, people being my favorite resource.  i love being around people but i also believe im pretty shy or introverted or something.  i have been since i was a kid.  i remember being so.  its always been that way but i need people.  i need people and then theres sometimes i dont and end up wrong and then end up in little pockets but its when its just like that long period of taking a few courses that youre just not enjoying.  youre like why am i here and whats going on uh for this time i had to take out a loan and its like im taking out a loan for classes like that and just not being around but yeah its just being around people and trying to attach myself again emotionally and just focusing outwards on the future.  
r now, im transferring to xxx (college name) next year but that whole like large pocket, that whole month, i say a little bit of this month and some of february it just didnt seem like it was going to come and i just went down there this weekend to visit some friends and it was a realization of how close i am to getting where i want to be and theres really no reason to back down now.  theres no logical reason just to be upset or depressed or whatever so i try to find the good and because in reality theres a lot of good and theres a lot of bad too but finding the good too is very important.
yeah it can happen.  it can happen because its happened several times in the past and i think i do have a family history of it.  i know my fathers that way so yeah i think it can happen.
ection iii: change
taying the same i was still getting stuff done but i wasnt showing up.  i wasnt being vocal.  i wasnt participating so i was just doing the bare minimum to get the gpa number but not anything else so yeah.
what stayed the same is like justunless im in a very bad state of mindi can still talk to them, i can still communicate and not be overly aggressive or like overly just nothing.  just overly sad or quiet like whispering on the phone or something when i was around but as it deepens it would geti would just close myself off more and more and thats just what happens.  you spend more time alone and alone and alone as a result of where your bodys taking you and you have to fight it.  thats just it to start that change.
i was very, very pessimistic and negative towards events and occurrences and days and myself in my own world, in my own view of self and everything and thats usually not the way it is but yeah so that all changes.  its a 180.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  whats stayed the same?  whats different?
its much harder to focus.  its much harder to focus on anything.  words will slip through your ears and not process so cognition definitely goes down because ill be constantly worrying or self-loathing or something and it just surrounds my whole being so yeah it definitely changes and it takes away from all the other aspects of me that i can usually pick up and take.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?
at some points, completely.  at some points i cansometimes it would come in waves so one day i would wake up and id have some control and other days no, none, and i dont know because maybe im just so young and i havent experienced it that much that i have the ability to control it and it shouldnt get that bad because i should be able to fix it myself or its just the way it is but yeah.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time of hardship?
its dependent on the day.  some days very little and some days some.  very little meaning my body puts me in its place, whether it be youre going to sit in this chair and really not move a muscle for a few hours at all not even touch your phone or anything.  you just kind of sit there and you blink and its 5 hours later or i have that mental state but im getting up and im going through all my daily functions and im still doing it.  im not talkative.  im not active.  im not lively but im still getting through functions so its still dependent.
they werent cause it was just me.  i dont like to push onto people.  i dont think thats necessary unless i need to go see a counselor or something then ill talk to a counselor or ill talk to a friend whos okay talking with me about it.  i have some really great friends and if anything they would just understand me better.  thats really how they take it, which is great, but i dont think i affected really anyone possible positively or negatively.  its really just me dealing with it.
uh the thing is i didnt see much of others.  i dont know.  it was mostlyits weird because my mind during those times im mostly focusing on myself completely.  its a very selfish feeling but others i cant say.  i mean sometimes positively.  im more positive than negative but most of the time its more of an internal struggle.
what i see ahead of myself is *laughs* uh a lot of things honestly.  a lot of things.  i dont have an exact ear mark but i see myself graduating on time or maybe even early, going out and doing what i want and living a happy life and working in jobs that i would love to work in and just all that.  i mean i usually have a very optimistic look.  ive always looked to the future and my past has looked to the future for comfort so thats where i do find my comfort but yeah i dont know.  i see good happening.
i was born in xxx (town name), germany on a military base.  my parents are xxx (first name) and xxx (first name).  i then moved to the states when i was about 2 years old.  i moved to xxx (city name), texas and then from there my parents got divorced and then i moved to xxx (city name), texas and then to xxx (city name), texas around the army bases there and then after that me and my mom settled down in xxx (town name), texas and then i was going to a christian preschool and kindergarten for those years and then after those years i moved to xxx (city name), kansas where we moved to another military base and then after that my mom got deployed to south korea so i then moved to xxx (town name), minnesota with my grandparents cause my dad was deployed in iraq.
then in 4th grade i moved to south korea with my mom and lived there for a year on the military base, on two military bases in xxx (city name), south korea and then from there i moved to xxx (town name), indiana with my dad when he came back from the war.  after that, i moved to north carolina with my mom and my new stepdad to where they got divorced then i moved back to xxx (town name), indiana.  i lived there up until my sophomore year so i lived there from 6th grade up until my 10th grade year and then i moved to xxx (town name), minnesota with my mom where she settled down and after that i moved back to xxx (town name), indiana to get residency for school so i could get free tuition to go to xxx (college name) because my dad was shot in one of the wars.
bout me uh thats about my life.  yeah.
ection ii
i guess my uh one of my good friends hung himself back in minnesota.  that was my senior year.  also, i moved out of my dads house right when i was living in xxx (town name) so i was living on my own.  i went to jail uh and i moved to xxx (city name) on my own and now im living here by myself.
probably my best friend killing himself.
i dont know uh i actually found out from our wrestling coach because we were both wrestlers and he sat both me and my other really, really good friend down and he told us thatwe thought we were in trouble because we were the stoners on the wrestling team so we really just wanted to know what we were in trouble for.  then he told us that uh that morning xxx (first name) had hung himself and uh then i thought that i realized what he meant when he texted me that night and he saidcause we had been texting all nightand he really wanted to smoke really bad and i told him that i was going to wait until the next day and he really wanted me to come over, really wanted me to come over, really wanted me to come over, and i just told him to wait until morning.  then i got a text at like 4 oclock in the morning that said im sorry bro, i love you and i didnt think anything of it when i woke up in the morning so i just played it off and then i got the news and i went and i didnt know what to do right then and there.
tarted bawling and walked to the nurses office, laid down, and then i blacked out for a little bit and went unresponsive so they called the paramedics and made me go in for a psycho exam and after i got done with that i was just beat as hell.  i didnt know what to do.  i lost my best friend and we both got dogs together and my dog lost a best friend and his dog lost everything.  his mom and dadi mean they were completely different people.  i mean i know for a fact that im a different person because of it and i know that ive calmed waycalmed way, way down because of it and i mean he was a crazy friend.  he was the one where we would go out there and we would go on his dirt bike track and take my little six banger on his ford focus and take it out on the dirt bike track and jump it over shit.  that was fun as hell but yeah during that time i was pretty messed up.  i was pretty bad i guess.  i stayed like that for i dont know probably like 2 months and then but the night that we had his memorial we got shit hammered at his house.  we had a huge party for him.
ne of his good friends got too hammered. it was pretty funny but we had a lot of fun.  yeah it sucks when his birthday always comes up november 4th.
probably when my great aunt died.  that was bad.  i didnt think anything of it but when i was going into it i was a mess but it was just foroh nope i know something way worse than that; when my dog died.  my dog henry.  he was an english mastiff.  he was 235 pounds.  he was huge.  he was black and actually he was tan but with a black mask.  he was the coolest dog ever and had him for a couple years and then i was the most pissed because he was like sick and i wanted to stay back with him for spring break.  my stepmom made us go and visit my dad in virginia beach because thats where he was stationed.  i was like no and then i told her to take him to the vet and she wouldnt and then we were on our way back from vacationwell when we were on vacation they said he started to get sick so we started to leave like the next day.  
when we got back, i was driving on the way back and my stepmom was sleeping in the back so i was speeding real fast to get back and then when we got there he was already dead and then i was pretty messed up for i dont know a while, a good couple of months; 3 months.  i think i almost beat some kids butt because of it.
no, it was a different dog.
well i couldnt comprehend why someone would kill themselves because it was selfish i feel because he had so many people that liked him but he thought he didnt.  i just couldnt comprehend it and it just kind of made my mind like blackout so that was about it.
i was dating this girl during that time and she helped me out a lot during that time and then i realized that i needed to get out of that town and get away from everyone so i left and came here.
yeah, probably my parents dying.
ection iii: change
no im working a lot more and schools a lot harder just in general.
they were muchi started hanging out with a lot of different people, just like my core friends.  actually no i was hanging out with a bunch of different people and then he killed himself and then i just hung out with our core friends like me, xxx (first name), xxx (first name), and xxx (first name) and that was it.  no one else.  i didnt hang out with anyone else.
ive calmed down a lot more but i mean i still feel like because of him im more of an asshole than i was before cause me and him made fun of each other all the time and it was funny as hell.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  whats stayed the same?  whats different?
i mean i just know that life is quick i guess cause ive known a lot of people after ive gotten out of high school and when ive been in high school that have died so i mean life goes pretty quick so i just want to live to the fullest right now.  thats why im getting my degree so when i retire or whenever i want to settle down and do what i want to do but right now just these next three years and then im gone to some other country.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?
it made me start smoking a lot more.  thats about it.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time of crisis?
i dont know.  im pretty strong mentally i think because ive been through a lot of stuff.  i mean i can control it but im just saying at that time it was like really, really hard to like at that time to think about it and then i would think about what his side would be and yeah.
my girlfriend was affected because after she helped me i dumped her cause i was moving and i didnt want to hurt her feelings but i definitely did the wrong thing.
he just kind of just hung out with me exclusively and just kind ofshe was the good girl of the high school and i was the stoner wrestler kid of the high school so i guess as they say opposites attract and so her parents hated me but my mom loved her so she came over all the time so i would go sneak over there all the time into their big ass house.  they had a big house and a cabin on the lake.
honestly i see myself either in washington right when i get out of school to hang out with my friends and theyre getting a dispensary and doing some fun stuff there or im going to go to spain where its always nice and hot and beautiful or honestly anywhere other than the united states cause its so judgmental here so i just want to get out and then when im done i just want to be a p.e teacher and then settle down.
well i grew up in the xxx (town name) area with my family and i have 6theres 6 of us in total but 5 siblings.  we grew up extremely religious in southern baptist *laughs* uh we all went to xxx (christian school name) or private schools and most of us graduated from that.  everybody split up into different areas like georgia or california or just xxx (town name) and im in xxx (town name) so thats kind of the quick run through of moving as to where we all relocated.  i personally went to xxx (homeschool classes name) and i was basically self-educated with my mom and that group and i had a lot of really great teachers which is why i chose to be a german major and a history major *laughs*.  from there, we got to travel to germany so thats why theres a lot of passion for me there and now im just here as a junior at xxx (college name) and a german and history major.
ection ii
ure yeah uh ive had about 2 rougher breakups and then ive also gone through dealing with rough family rivalries and wills and you know just law things to try to figure out how to pay for schooling and the manipulation of that and the people of my family that have made that extremely difficult and i would say probably the hardest thing is just having to constantly re-identify myself online and hide myself just because my family is very religious.  a lot of things stemming from that would be my mother more supporting that side and not really helping her kids secure their future and watching how that plays out in my siblings lives and theres also the loss of my grandmother who lived for 20 years pretty much just dying on a couch so that was a huge contributor to a lot of stressors and stress in my life.
well my grandfather had died about 3 years ago and he was the one that had the will that paid for all my siblings and cousins to achieve a higher education.  
i would say the loss of my grandmother was the more instant psychological.  it was just rough for me to handle and balance after.
well during that time i was already with a therapist regularly and a psychiatrist and prescribed different medications to handle, you know, different whatever they had diagnosed me with at the time and those helped a little bit but they helped me more just avoid it so id just say my mental state was more disorganized and frazzled and trying to put it all together per usual and it was thought between myself and my therapist that the more underlying cause to my stress could have been not knowing how to handle those emotions.
yes.
it was watching uh someone who had abused her her whole life pretend to care and be the victim because his wife died early.  it was also watching abusive uncles, not who abused me, but who abused so many women that theres just a list of ex-wives and children and seeing them come back and pretend to be redeemed or the prodigal sons while also hurting everyone in the mere span of 4 days so it was just really rough to see all that go on as well as to have to process how i was feeling.
it took a lot of time.  if she had died early on my birthday morning and i also had to work so it was just a quick stop and go at the hospice but i just basically kind of repressed it and just kept putting it off until i had the appropriate time to really, if i was going to get emotional, be emotional on my own and in private.
yeah i could.
ection iii: change
my school performance stayed the same.  at that point, it didnt really affect my ability to function throughout my day or focus but what i think was mostly affected was my work performance.  i had to be there that day and then just being in that same space would remind me that theres just kind of a dark memory associated with being there so work wasnt always the greatest.  i wasnt in a good mood and in about 2 months i had actually already switched jobs to go from a team sales person at xxx (employer name) to be a barista at starbucks.
i used to go every holiday and throughout the year multiple times to visit family on my fathers side, it was his mother, so during that time we all came together in a way that didnt seem appropriate and it seemed like everyone had a selfish reason.  since then, ive completely spaced myself out from everyone and its actually been about a year and a half since ive actually seen them.
it made melike afterwards i had received a card from her that i hadnt gotten yet from my graduation and just reading what she had to say was just very uh very empowering so id say something that changed was i wasnt okay with accepting what was just given to me in what situation i was in because in 20 years i could still just be sitting in the same bed waiting to die so id say i lost a little bit of optimism but its more i gained more of a realistic look on life and more of an individualized look like its not much about whos in it but me.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  whats stayed the same?  whats different?
i would say that i had gone to funerals in the past but having that kind of connection with someone where they just get you from day one, when you dont really get that from your caregivers or parents or whatever you want to call that; that was a very uh new stage, new territory trying to figure out how not to burst out in tears in a room of 17 different styles of the same victorian furniture and very, very awkward floral arrangements and an open casket and it was just very morbid and very different to what i was used to cause id always gone to closed casket funerals so id say the very hardest thing was just learning how to tame my emotions and i think from that thats probably the biggest thing i took away was to just how to shut it down, tame it and just adapt to the situation.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?
only slightly in terms of like time, rearranging studying, rearranging going to the testing center at that time, rearranging plans and friendships and relationships just for a little bit.  afterwards thought, i really didnt want it to hold me back and so i just tried to really talk about it with my therapist and be open about what i was feeling across the spectrum so i think that helped mostly which was communicating about it.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time of crisis?
it was easy at the end, after id learned and been put right in there for the viewing and having everybody walk up and saying in southern tonesjust the worst things you could say to someone at a funeral and just almost trying to get you to cry so if youve ever gone through that you just learn very quick how to just shut down and let them say what theyre going to say and survive it.
well my mother and father are divorced now and at the time my mother decided to take it upon herself to lash out at my father and give him a lot of grief about some stupid tuition or fafsa sign up that she didnt know she was supposed to do but she did and anyways she just decided to cause a fight and then my fathers emotional state there was just a lot of angry things going on and it was just really hard to just step away and be kind to my mother and understanding but also be completely supportive to my father and not look like im just in the middle.  i mean it was obvious who was wrong but that would be one of the hardest social relationship situations i had to deal with.
my uncle, who was very abusive to his children and wife before he left to go be a truck driver in north carolina, uh leaving them all behind of course as responsible as he is and just seeing him show up and see him be very cold and distant to his kids who were really excited to see him and use the excuse that it was his mother when really he just couldnt drink when he got there and make it not look like an idiot so i think that would be where it wasthey altered how i felt because i have cousins ranging from 10 days before i was born to 6 years younger than me so its really hard to see age groups from there struggle with rejection from their parents.
i see myself becoming a teacher, probably for history but i would love to find a school that has a german program and teach there and then i would like to be able to come back and eventually get a masters in something and see what i want to do with life.
i was born in jordan in 1995 and i lived there for 7 years and then we moved to cyprus, where my moms from, and i went to preschool and first grade in cyprus and then we moved back to jordan for about 1 year, which was when i was in second grade.  then my parents got divorced and then i moved back to cyprus with my mom and my dad also moved to cyprus but i lived with my mom in cyprus and i went to elementary school and middle school in cyprus and most of high school up until year 11.  i played basketball and soccer throughout those years and then after year 11, i decided to move to xxx (town name), indiana where i lived with my uncle for my senior year of high school and i played basketball and rugby for my high school team in xxx (town name), indiana.  after that, i moved back to cyprus after i graduated and i was in the military for 6 months and then i was medically discharged due to a tumor in my knee and i was on rehab for that for about 6 months and then in august i moved to the states to attend xxx (college name).  thats it.
ection ii
yes.
both being in the military when you didnt want to be in the military, you were forced to by your countryit being conscriptionso you did not want to be a part of that.  you wanted to go study and not feel like youre just useless but youre forced to be there just wasting your time, in my opinion, so that was very stressful and then being limited for 6 months to any type of movement cause of two different surgeries between a 4 month span so that was frustrating.
probably the military.
not good, i mean better than peoplei mean i would say i have mental problems because i can see myself being able to push through problems better than other people but it was definitely difficult to push through those problems.
yeah.
the physical toll started it off on your body, not sleeping, doing exercises all day, and the weather back there is a lot more hot so it just exhausts you and then that builds onto the mental toll too.  just the fact that you dont want to be there but youre forced to be there.  youre forced to take orders.  youre forced to do what they say even if you dont want to.
i finished with the military *laughs*.
yeah.  i mean there are a lot worse things that could happen.  i could be diagnosed with a disease that is not curable.  a close family member could pass away.  yeah theres a lot worse that could happen.
ection iii: change
i was definitely a lot less efficient, a lot less motivated, and miserable unless i was around friends.
im in a better mood now so its easier to get along with people, less arguments, better relationships now than what it was.
whats different is im more lively now.  whats stayed the same is perseverance i guess.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  whats stayed the same?  whats different?
whats different is actually in the military i had a lot of time to think about things, probably too much time to think about things *laughs*.  now im a lot more busy, actually doing things; work, school, not a lot of free time.  emotions uh that still in the military i had a lot more time to think about my emotions.  a lot more time to express my emotions, even if i wasnt allowed to but now i just kind of do what i have to do to get by.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?
it physically controlled everything i do.  thats pretty much it i mean when youre in the military youre controlled so *laughs*.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time of crisis?
not very good.  i mean most of the days i was fine but there were some days where i would just break down and it was usually because i was being forced to do something i didnt want to do after a long day, no sleep, really hot; just everything coming in at once.
ometimes they would be affected because everyones mood affects each other but a lot of times, at least in my experience in the military, a lot of people are thinking for themselves and they just want to have the least hard time they can have so depending on the situation; sometimes theyre affected and sometimes theyre just thinking to themselves.
a lot.   if people are in a good mood, it puts you in a good mood so yeah.
i see myself continuing to study, continuing to learn throughout my life.  in the near future, hopefully getting an internship and graduating and then once i graduate im not sure what i want to do yet cause in my opinion thats a time when youre not really committed to school, youre not committed to any jobs yet if you havent applied, and so thats a time i can kind of take a year off and go do something completely random if i wanted to.  i dont know.  i could go into my career straight after school.  i could not.  i dont know yet.
born in xxx (town name), maryland.  its a naval hospital, grew up around the baltimore area.  xxx (town name), maryland; its like 15 minutes from the south end of baltimore.  pretty normal childhood i guess.  i traveled a lot between the states and hong kong.  during the summers, id spend my time in hong kong.  its where my moms side of the family is from and then come back and do the whole school thing here in the states.  spent my first 17 years in maryland then started college in 2005, fall semester in west virginia at xxx (college name).  i was there for 3 years, stopped because they only accept 20 students per year in the nursing program there and there are far more applicants than there are students so i wasnt going to sit around for a year and wait to go in after that.  itd just be a waste of my time and money so i enlisted in the us navy, spent 6 years doing that.  i was a hospital foreman, got out as a 3rd class.  
y first couple years was in japan, sasebo and i ran and managed a health clinic, did lots of minor procedures, patient care, ran the laboratory, immunizations, did a lot of supply, money, budgeting and then after that my second duty station was with 29 so its a second battalion, 9th marines but they fall under 6th marines so i did two combat deployments.  the first one being xxx (town name) in provence.  the second one we were just on camp leatherneck doing regular raids.  i didnt partake in the two that we did on that but the first deployment i did tons of like foot patrols and things like that.  there were plenty of ieds out there *laughs* and now here i am so now im a student at xxx (college name).  my first semester here and i only have like 3 more left so uh i dont know.  i mean i guess that wasnt too much detail.  i grew up and not a whole lot going on really, played sports in high school; lacrosse, and then i did a lot of skateboarding as well.  thats about it.
ection ii
well i guess recently, maybe a week or two before school started up, a pretty close friend of mine that i was stationed with at my first duty station committed suicide.  i dont know if i should say his name or anything but well he killed himself and i dont know the whole details behind it.  i havent seen him in like 3 years since we were first stationed together.  just today i found out a friendwell i probably shouldnt say friendbut a guy that i knew that was stationed at my second duty station he just went to jail for a whole year or hes starting his yearlong thing for a crime that he committed.  its pretty dumb so i mean i guess that sort of bums me out knowing a couple people that are in some pretty bad situations.
the suicide.
a lot of i guess the typical asking why would someone do it, why he would do it because its like sure he thought it was an easy way out for himself but hes got so many other friends and family that are, you know, who love him dearly and a lot of us consider each other like brothers.  when i first came here, like the first week or two, i was just like a little zoned out i guess just like man i cant believe this dude did that.  it didnt really seem like something hed do.
no.
just because i guess i know what being away from family, friends, loved ones; at that point id already done like back to back combat tours so i sort of know that the loneliness can really get to you.  people dont always make it back off of deployment so i guess i can sort of relate to him.  i have no idea why he did it himself but from my own experience i guess and a lot of other peoples experiences themselves and working in the medical background i guess that all sort of contributed.
i just think about i dont want to end up like that so i dont want to do anything to harm myself or other people so i just sort of went on through my day, try to live my life as normal as possible, try to get through it *laughs*.
i could.  im sure theres several times where i just thought aboutwhen i was at my duty station, getting told that in 6 months after being back for only 6 months that on the 6 month mark id be back in afghanistan like i dont want to do that again.  i sort of had my fill the first time *laughs* so i was sort of over all that and its just like theres nothing you can do about it and no matter what you say youre going.  i just thought about like man itd be so much easier to just dangle my feet over a bridge or something like that but youve just got to man up and do it.
ection iii: change
nothing really changed so i just sort of continued doing everything normal.  i dont have a full time job.  the military pays me to come to school so its not something i have to worry about so much so school functioning.  i mean it all happened before school so like the week before school so i guess its been alright.  i mean the first week or two i was like not really into really focusing on it but after a while i just had to buckle down and whats done is done and ive got to work on my own stuff.
well i guess like all my friends that knew him we all sort of gathered together i guess, mostly on the internet because were all far away from each other now but we all just sort of came together and hoped for the best for his family and friends.  none of my relationships really changed.  i dont see anything like that.
i guess everything sort of stayed the same.  i dont have anything likei guess i just sort of have like a morbid sort of personality maybe.  death and stuff like that, maybe its because of the medical background, but i just sort of accept things like that.  someone killing themselves is obviously not like a cool thing to happen so death is death so whats done is done really.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  whats stayed the same?  whats different?
pretty much everythings stayed the same.  i cant really think of any life specific details or anything where my thinking or any of my cognitive ability changed at all.  emotion stayed the same pretty much.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?
it didnt control me at all.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time of crisis?
i think i cried for like a minute or two just because you know it was a pretty close friend at the time but that was it *laughs* but after that it was all pretty much fine.
i think i only told my parents.  they didnt seem too interested *laughs* like it wasnt their friend but they just let me have my space.  they never said anything about it or brought up the subject.
well when i first came to school, everyone was just really happy and into it so i just tried to get into my schoolwork as well and try to get excited about schoolwork and get excited about my life and not worry too much about the past.
hopefully graduating here in a short amount of time, well as quickly as possible so maybe a year and a half or maybe 2 years at the latest and then try to get a commission in the navy to live that life again *laughs*.  
kay.
nope
um, born in [city], [state]. its a native hospital, grew up around the [city] area, southern [state] it about 15 minutes from the south end of [state]. um, pretty normal childhood, i guess. i traveled a lot between the [country] and [country]. um, during the summers id spend my summers in [country]. thats where my mom, uh, the family is from, and uh, come back, you know, do the whole school things in the [country]. um, spent my first seventeen years in [state], and started college, um, in [year], fall semester in [state] at [university] and was there for three years. um, stopped because they only accept 20 students per year into the nursing program there, and there are far more applicants then there are students. so i wasnt going to sit around for a year, so, uh, and wait to go in and after that it would just be a waste of my time and money. so i enlisted in the u.s. navy, um, spent six years doing that, i was a hospital core men, uh, got out as third class. my first couple years was in [country]. i ran and managed the medical clinic or health clinic. um, did lots of minor procedures, uh, patient care, ran the laboratory, and the immunizations, um, did a lot of supply, money budgeting, a lot. so then after that my second duty station was with uh, second , well, uh, two nine, so thats a second battalion, ninth marines, but they fall under sixth marines. so, uh, i did two combat deployments, uh, the first one being [country], um the second one were just on [military base], and doing halo raids. i didnt partake in the two we did on that, but uh, the first deployment i did tons of like foot patrols and stuff like that, there was plenty of iuds up there. and now here i am, uh, so now i am student at [university]. my first semester here and i only have like three more left, so um, i dont know, i guess that wasnt too much detail. i mean i grew up and not a whole lot going on really, played sports in high school, lacrosse and i did a lot of skateboarding as well. yeah, thats about it.
um, well i guess recently, maybe a week or two before school started up, a pretty close friend of mine, that i was stationed with at my first duty station committed suicide. um, probably shouldnt, i dont know if i should say his name or anything
kay. uh, yeah well he killed himself and i dont know the whole, the details behind it. i havent seen him in like three years, since we were first stationed together. um, just today i found out a friend, well, i really shouldnt say friend, but a guy that i knew, that i was stationed with at my second duty station, was um, he just went to jail for a whole year, or hes starting his year-long thing for, uh, a crime he committed, it was pretty dumb. so, i mean, i guess that sort of bums me out knowing a couple people that are in pretty bad situations.
uh, the suicide.
um, a lot of, i guess, the typical asking, why would someone do it?, why he would do it because its like hes sure he probably thought it was an easy way out for himself but hes got so many friends and family that are, you know, love him dearly. a lot of us consider each other like brothers, so its like, so when i first started, came here, the first week or two, i was just like a little zoned out, i guess. just like, man, i cant believe this dude did that. 
t didnt really seem like something hed do, so.
no.
yeah.
that i experienced?
just because i guess i know probably what he was going through, um, being away from family, friends, loved ones. um, at that point id already done back to back combat tours, and so, i sort of know what, like, the loneliness can really get to you. um, people dont always make it back off on deployment, but its just like, i guess i could sort of relate to him. i, uh, have no idea why he did it himself, but from my own experience, i guess a lot of other peoples experience as well, and working in a medical background, so i guess that all contributed a little bit.       
just think about i dont want to end up like that, so, i dont want to, you know, do anything to harm myself or other people. so i just sort of went on with my day, tried to live my life as normal as possible, tried to get through it. 
um, i could. im sure there is several times, where i just thought when i was at my second duty station and getting told that in six months, after being back for only six months that on the six month mark i would be back in [country]. like, i dont want to do that again. i sort of had my fill the first time. so i was sort of over all that. theres nothing you can do about it, and no matter what you say, youre going, so i thought it would be so much easier to just dangle my feet over a bridge or something like that, but you got to just man up and do it. 
um, nothing really change, so i sort of just continued doing everything normal. i dont have a full time job, the military pays me money to come to school, so its not something i have to worry about too much. 
chool functioning, um, i mean it all happened before school, so i mean, like the week before school, so i guess its been alright. i mean the first week or two i  was like, not really into, really focusing on it, but after a while, i had to just buckle down and you know, whats done is done, so i got to work on my own stuff. 
well i guess, like all my friendships, all my friends that knew him, we all sort of gathered together, i guess, we, uh, mostly on the internet, and, uh, because were all far away from each other. now, but, uh, we sort of came together, and hoped for the best for his family and friends. um, none of my relationships really changed. i dont see anything like that?
guess everything sort of stayed the same. i dont have anything, like, i guess i just sort of have a morbid sort of personality maybe. it didnt like, death and stuff like that, maybe its part of the medical background, i just sort of accept things like that. someone killing themselves obviously is not like a cool things to happen, but you know, death is death, and, uh, whats done is done, really.
pretty much everything stayed the same. i cant really think of any like specific details or anything sort of where my thinking or any of my cognitive ability sort of changed at all.
um, stayed the same pretty much.
t didnt control me at all
think i cried for like a minute or two just because it was a pretty close friend at the time. but after that it was all fine. 
yeah, i think i, like, told my parents. they didnt seem too interested. it wasnt their friend. but, uh, i think, they were probably like let me have my space. they never said anything about it or brought up the subject?
well when i first came to school, everyone was just really happy and into it. so i just tried to get into my school work as well, so tried to be excited about school, and starting the next chapter of my life, and not really worry to much about the past. 
hopefully graduating here in a short amount of time, well as quickly as possible, so hopefully a year and a half, maybe two years at the latest, and then hopefully try to get a commission in the navy so i can live that life again. yeah. 
i usually remember by where i lived so the firstthe only memory i havei was born in xxx (town name) and i lived there only for about 3 years so the only memory i have of there is when my cousin stole my toy from me and i was fighting for it back and my aunt yelled at him to give it back to me cause he was older than me.  i think about 3-5 i lived in apartments and thats when my brother was born and i remember he was uh i was a little bit jealous but then i got over it quickly cause i just did and i had a cousin she used to babysit but i used to get in a fight with her all the time.  my parents had this big, black like frame thing and it used to scare me and shewhen we used to fightshe used to put me up against it cause i would freak out.  i remember a lot of my cousins coming over and things like that at that age and then about 6, right when i was starting school we moved into our first home, our own home; my parents, me and my brother.
ter moving in, we got a dog pretty quickly.  i really liked that house cause it was our first home and it was just everything was basically perfect and uh it was like this little happy childhood thing where everythings just all smiley and rainbows and uh my sister was born and i think i was about 7 when she was born or turning 7.  i was actually really happy and excited and my brother was actually very jealous and then i remember a lot of family coming over cause we had space and it was our own home and i remember a lot of playing with the neighbors cause we got along really well with one of our neighbors and there were a lot of barbeques and things like that and then uh my parents couldnt keep the house so then we had to give away the dog and that was really sad.  i had my own room and everything and then we had to move into an apartment so i had to switch schools and that was when i was about 9, 10 and i had to share a room with my brother.
rything wasnt like it was before.  money was tighter.  my parents were definitely more stressed, you could tell, and school was still going really well with me.  when i started school, i didnt speak english.  spanish is my first language and that was traumatizing basically so i focused really hard on that so i could do well in school so i still i continue to do well and since i was put in a new situation all i did was focus on school and get good grades.  by the time i finished, cause that was a blur and i dont really remember much of that time, i was really happy about finishing elementary school then i went to middle school and i went with all my friends from elementary to middle school and then my parents decided they wanted to move into a home so then we moved into a home and i had to transfer again and that wasnt really good.  that was during 7th grade and i felt really out of place at that middle school and so uh i dont know.  
used to spend a lot of time at home, a lot of time watching tv, movies and things like that and then during 8th grade i dont know i just got over it and i started uh getting good grades again and i started making more friends so i had a few friends when i went up to high school and then so freshman year i felt a lot better because i knew people from my old middle school and then this new middle school so i had like uh decent amount sized friends but i got really cocky with school so i failed a couple of my honors classes and that really uh i dont know made me depressed i guess cause i know i could do it but i got way too confident that if i didnt study or anything i could still pass but i couldnt and so and i dont know.  we had to move again during 8th grade so when i went to high school i had to move again and that wasnt really helpful either and so it was a lot of new things so i didnt really feel good at that time and then during junior year i decided like no i have to get a handle on my life so i became more social.
tarted getting my grades together again.  i started joining clubs and everything started getting better.  senior year was really fun.  there was a lot of drama but that was entertaining.  i got my honors diploma which i wanted.  i had a job so i had spending money but it was a lot of uh me scheduling every minute of every day because it was school, work, clubs, and homework and projects and things like that and hanging out with friends and then college and we moved one more time which was last year but i was pretty happy about it cause its a new home and we think were going to stay there.  first semester of freshman year, which was about 2 years ago or 2013 fall, i did really well or i passed and i was working but then i quit that job cause it was a change of management and i wasnt feeling it and that kind ofi was i dont know.  
need to keep busy i guess with school, doing things after school and i wanted money for security, stability, and i mean i still live with my parents but always having your own money and independence and i like independence and then so second semester not having a job and the first week of school i missed almost all of my classes cause of parking and that just threw off the whole schedule of the semester and so i almosti failed a couple of the classes and that didnt help much and things were just weird.  the energy felt weird, home things werent really going well i guess it was just stress and my parents stress and we were all just clashing and then when we moved everything started getting better and we had our new dog.  her name is cece; shes really sweet and she loves me and i dont know i just started focusing after i failed that semester basically and i didnt have financial aid.
didnt have a job either but the first month of summer i basically was just choosing that time just to like relax and not think about anything and after that i started looking to find a job so i can pay for school so i can get back into school and uh get back into financial aid.  that semester of 2014, fall, i did not go to school but i had a job where i started saving money.  i work at a call center and then now im back in school and everythings back where it should be.  im doing pretty well in my classes and i have a job that pays pretty well and im back basically where i was senior year and thats where i want to stay and i guess venture into new things and find things to make me happy and thats it.  thats my life.
yeah when i graduated high school that summer i had a group of friends where we hung out every week of that summer.  we just like did everything like just to have fun before we started the real world basically but then after that, after we started school, we just started breaking apart and then i have two reallyi had two really close best friends but one of them sheher personality uh she wasnt i would say a terrible person but she definitely had bad habits and so we slowly just ended up stop talking and it was like the three of us we were really different so that was kind of sad but the other one shes still my friend.  ive known her for years and we actually have a lot in common.  we actually have some differences, which is good, but we have a lot in common.  
we have the same goals and stuff like that so were still friends but then she was struggling with school too so starting college it was like we had our job but then we were losing friends and we were doing good in school but then after i lost my job and uh she wasnt doing well in school so it was like we couldnt help motivate like neither one of us was in a positive state of mind so we couldnt really help each other and it was just negativity and it wasnt really good.  my parentsthey kept getting on me about things so it felt not good at all and i had no money.  i wasnt doing good in school and everything around me was basically negative.  i still lived in that apartment with my parents and everything was---there was really nothing positive.  then i dont really know much about dating and so i was single and everything was just like there was nothing to build happiness on and so i dont know.  it just wasnt a good time.
unstable uh cloudy and just lost and really lost so then that was like it built fear and a lot of stress.  it was kind of depressing cause there was no foundation i could stand on basically and everything was just really dark and that was it.
yeah uh it was aroundive never had cause im not like a sob story but ive never really had a good birthday.  theres always something around my birthday just negative energy or just so i eventually just got over celebrating my birthday cause every single year theres always some type of drama and so i can remember a couple of my birthdays where i  just felt like the whole world was like against me and so i just choose not really to celebrate my birthday or not pay attention to it like its just another day.  yeah.
i mean i could say it was uh i dont know i could say it was situational things but it was justwhat things probably made me most upset was things out of my control like i kept looking for jobs but none were hiring me and i guess it was cause of a lack of experience but its like if i get a job and i build experience but if they dont give it to me im not going to, you know.  its just a cycle of getting nowhere and yeah and i cant change peoples emotions, how they feel about me, so that i think it was everything it was just a lack of control and i couldnt get anything to work or no matter what i did i felt like it wasnt going to make anything better so thats what made it i guess really bad for me.
what i usually do is i justi always just suck it up.  im just like you know what at the end, after this i know theres going to have to be something thats worth it for me and if ive been through stuff before then i know that theres going to be something better on the other side and that im going to have a story to tell and that im going to have my success story and i will have a time where everythings right and im going to be really happy about everything and so i was just like you know what just make a plan, stick to it, and after you complete the steps you will get to where you need to get which i guess is where i have my job now and im back in school so everythings a lot better.  hopefully things will get better but yeah thats basically what i do.  i just suck it up and make plans and keep it going.
yeah i could i guess see uh things couldive always i guess had my own theories about how life works so i always assume that things will go good for a while and there will be a time where everythings just going to suck and then it will pick back up so if things go well for me i guess i could see something happening again or something being brought up where i wont be emotionally stable so yeah it could happen again cause i figure thats how life works.  its not always rainbows and sunshine and things like that.
ection iii: change
well uh i had no job so i was used to doing that after school so i had a lot of free time and free time i dont think is really that good for me uh so i really didnt puti was already behind in school from the first week and only attending one class and so picking back up i didnt feel any motivation and so i didnt really try and there were some situations that were out of my hands like turning in a paper and then the printer wouldnt want to print so then i was late to that class and there points deducted and stuff like that and so uh when things like that happened it didnt make meit just made me lose confidence and so thats uh well i started failing.  one of the reasons why i started failing and then i guess when things yeah thats why i failed school and i still had only passed a couple of classes and i had no job during that time.
when i did do my assignment or when i did actually complete stuff, it was the way i usually do where i just jump into it and i just try as hard as i can or for example if i write papers i break things down, like because i had an english class, and uh what else i had a spanish class and i always do well in spanish so my uh i guess the only outlet i knew i had was that i knew i was going to pass spanish so i made sure to do really well and i got an a in that and so when i actually did try thats the only thing that stayed the same.  when i actually did try and actually wanted to, i actually got what i wanted done.
i had no romantic relationships uh with my friends i only had one friend which is good and all but i guess when you have a group or you know you actually have people that care for you outside of your family makes you feel good.  if its only one person, it almost feels like just the constant with that one person it doesnt feeli dont know how to explain this.  i basically was just like leaning on them the whole time but they didnt really have much uh that i could lean on so that wasnt really that good and uh my parentswe argued a lot.  they basically felt like i wasnt really doing anything and so and then my brother and sister theyve always beenthey love me and allbut theyve always been recently found their own voice but theyve always been under my parents wings and so their opinions and everything are always agreeing with my parents.  if my parents said something, it would be like the whole family against me.
o if it was my whole family against me then i had only one person i could lean on and that person could barely hold themselves up.  it was like i didnt have anything uh to lean on and i didnt have any foundation, a strong foundation or any stability and thats when my state of mind became cloudy and weird and things like that.
its weird because i know how my brother and sister were asking but i stillfor example on fridays or saturdays i stayed in and watched netflix or something if i didnt have money to go out or whatever and i always did that with them or wed buy a lot of snacks and wed have a movie night or watch our shows and uh we stayed doing that and my friend, with the little bit of money we had, we would find ways to go out and go out to eat or do something fun so that we wouldnt feel as depressed as we did and so i guess that stayed the same.  i kept myself busy.
i felt like i dont know like i wasi almost invest too much emotion into things and so its hard to trust friends and so what i started doing instead of thinking like, focusing on how that person could like basically i stopped caring if that person liked me or not which i dont want to say is a bad or a good thing.  its one of those things where you have to know how to work so i wouldnt say things that were like hurtful but then again if i felt a certain way im not going to keep my mouth shut cause this is the way im feeling.  if youre allowed to express the way you feel, then i should be able to do the same and uh so my personality i just stopped investing too much of i dont know.  
would get my feelings hurt really easily with my friends or what they did and stuff like that so i just stopped investing myi dont want to say timebut i stopped caring basically which sounds kind of cold but if youre too sensitive about every little thing with your friends then youre never going to be happy and i guess people started picking up on that and so when people start picking up on things like that theres like a level of respect and then you guys mutually start meeting in the middle about things.  my personality sadly it became i think a little bit colder but then i also ironically started trying to be more positive about stuff and so any little happy moment i would try to enjoy it and feel the happiness instead of thinking of something that could ruin it and then yeah thats really how my personality changed.
i would say my perseverance and my motivation cause i always try to find motivation eventually so thats what i try to do and isense of humor.  i always try to findi dont take everything in life too seriously so thats kind of fun, make fun of things even dark things sometimes because it makes everything better and i mean everythingi dont know how i react to situations stayed the same so basically ive always gone with my gut about stuff or if i feel a certain way about things that stays the same so if i like something or if i know somethings off like i will say it or i just wont participate or ill take myself out of situations or put myself in a situation and thats stayed the same and i think thats a good thing cause i think my instincts are pretty good.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  what changed during that time?
my way of thinking uh i choose not to think like during the day if im at work for example then all i think about is work and if im out of work and i have something to do at school then all i think about is school so if i dont think about too many things at once.  i try to do that because i feel like i have a little bit of add or adhd cause my mind goes everywhere and so i try to focus on that one thing and then ive noticed how when i do that i feel better about myself because when ive focused on that one thing all my energy is being put into it and i do better with putting my energy into one thing and so i see a better outcome usually when i do that and thats made me feel better so thats what ive learned to do and ive learned to come into situations with a blank mind, with an open mind.  basically just let what happens happen and ill start putting in my opinion and things whenever i see things i like or dont like but yeah cause ive noticed if you just go with the flow sometimes it works out really well.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  what stayed the same during that time?
i would say i like to think pretty rationally so if something just doesnt make sense to me like i always like things to make sense and if theres no logic then thats kind of frustrating to me and ive always been like that and its one of those things of my personality where its like one of my leading personality traits where i just like the way things are when theyre logical.  when theyre not, i get stressed or upset or whatever and thats definitely stayed the same.  i like things that make sense.  yeah.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?
unfortunately, i think it controlled my life completely during that time cause thats all that time was just me beingeven if i tried to smile and be happy i knew i wasnt really happy at that time and so that time is what i learned to do is to not let things take control of me and i take control of things but at that time it took control of me and it just kept me down and yeah thats how that time was.  thats what it did.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time?
unfortunately, i wasnt able to do that and then you would just have those moments when youre by yourself and no ones around where you truly know how youre feeling and you cant show other people and i feel like that was always the worst time when youre alone and you actually have time to think about everything.  youre just like fed up and just i guess tired and yeah i didnt have any control.
ee with like back to my logical way of thinking i think its kind of petty to uh have outbursts or take things out on other people cause i wouldnt want it the other way around with someone taking something out on me when theres nothing to do with me so i uh tried to stay the samethe way i acted with other people and i guess it was a way of me trying to hide that i felt terrible but then it was also me just thinking why would i make things harder for everyone else when it has nothing to do with them like i need to figure out myself and things for me cause i always think of myself as independent and i like to stick with being as real as i say i am.
my parents uh their negative energy just added to my negative energy and my friendshe surprisingly was always really optimistic even though she was always basically a mess too and so her optimism that helped me learn to be more optimistic cause sometimes i feel like almost being pessimistic and logical almost go hand in hand sometimes uh and so i just started thinking more positively because of her and yeah thats the only positive but everyone elselike my family cause theyre the only people i really interacted withthey didnt really have a good energy so thats what really made me feel down.
i feel like ill have a moment cause right now im exploratory and i just dont haveeven though things are going welli dont have like a goal or i dont have anything im like really looking for and i feel like ill have a moment of epiphany where everything will just kind of come to me and everything will just start getting better and itll just like snowball effect where everything will get better and i feel like im pretty happy now but in that moment of time ill just feel really happy and uh ill find my major in college and ill start looking for a career and maybe a relationship and then everything will just be good from now and just carry over and i almost feel like everything will get better.  yeah.
nope. that is fine. 
ntereviewer: ok.
um, i was born in south bend indiana to two parents and they are still married. they both met in college too, so no pressure there from their part for me. i am an only child, no brothers or sisters and no really close cousins; we are sort of a pretty tight knit trio.
ntereviewer: yes.
um, lets see, i went to elementary school, i transferred actually across to an elementary school pretty far away from my home because it was an elementary school for gifted children so i was there amongst other little nerds. and we all read and programmed computers happily together from a young age. um, that it was pretty good i mean it was in a rough part of town but the people i met there you know they are good people, the friends that i made there. um, middle school was sort of unremarkable, i think i mostly read constantly to sort of avoid the roughness that middle school sometimes has, and same thing with high school really. it can um mostly sort of just waiting for that school time to be over. um, i was an avid dancer though, that was probably the biggest part of my life during that high school period. that would be hours of practice every day, um in ballroom, sort of like fred astaire and ginger rogers. and then also just as a dance team member, which was everything from ballet to hip hop. and, yes i know right, hip hop, but hey that works too. um, i actually went to a college before this and it was in portland oregon. i have been a fairly independent person, i wanted to just take off and go across the country. um, once there i liked being independent but i do not really think the school was quite for me, it was more of a research based, writing lots of essays and i did not really know what i wanted to major in. i know i worked really hard but did okay, and at the end i just was not very happy, so i ended up transferring back here. and now i am in a much more factual less devoted sorted program in nursing and that has been pretty good, um i am happy with that. the biggest change in this part of my life is been that um in the last it has been what a year and a half ago now i was diagnosed well not diagnosed i am still what on a diagnosis but um i have had a chronic pain syndrome so i have spent the last year and a half in pain constantly and it never really goes away so, hopefully waiting a diagnosis. but there are tests to run and meds to try in the meantime. so, and that is today. 
ntereviewer: anything else you want to add to your story?
no i think that is pretty much it. 
ntereviewer: ok. um, so in the next part, um like i said i am going to ask you more questions and the first is have you experienced a hardship or a time of crisis that you feel like caused you psychological distress in the last two years?
yeah, probably be that onset of the chronic pain. 
ntereviewer: yes, ok. um so how would you think about your mental state during this hardship?
um, it varies day to day, you know, it is sort of hard to keep the hope all of the time and it has made it really difficult to have friends because i feel like i come across as a pleasant person in you know pleasant enough in basic interaction but it is sort of hard for me to really connect with a person who is my own age. when i do not feel like we are on the same page or having the same concerns. like earlier today, um, i was talking to a girl who is actually in a psych class and um, she was telling me about how stressed she was about a little exam coming up and i was like really? because right now i just feel like cutting off one of my arms and, you know i am sort of worried that i might have a brain tumor, i do not know what sort of sympathy i can give. and i know that you should not do that and i know that you should not compare pain or levels of difficult and it is all just subjective but it does, it is like there is a certain level of sympathy i have and it is just slowly getting lower and lower as i have to expend more of it on myself. so. 
ntereviewer: so, how about in the past have you felt an equivalent or an even greater level of distress compared to this?
um, no this is probably the worst thing. yeah. 
ntereviewer: and, in your mind what would you say has caused these difficulties, related to this problem?
um, just the constant level of physical pain, it is like just getting stabbed and then people just expecting you to go about your ordinary life. 
ntereviewer: and i know you said this is kind of a current, um, problem, because the next question is how do you recuperate from, you know, from this hardship?
um, well i start; i actually have two appointments in the next days. um, one is an mri, i think they are going to look for brain tumors, and then the next is to a just a general doctor trying some new meds. so, for right now it is mostly just plan the treatments, see what sort of treatments are available, you know treat the pain, and then also find a diagnosis. so as they are increasingly becoming separate things as the diagnosis go away. and in some ways it is ok. like, some of the really serious things like ms have been ruled out but now it is just this wide plethora of somewhat less frightening but also longer term things. so.
ntereviewer: yes. and can you imagine experiencing a situation, um,  that results in a similar state of mind or even worse state of mind?
n i imagine experiencing the results?  i am sorry i do not understand what you mean by that.
ntereviewer: um, can you imagine a situation um that results in a similar amount of i guess pain or um rather in your state of mind? does that make sense?
yes, i mean sure definitely. i mean i think there is a lot of different sorts of pains. even i do not know a particularly rough break up could maybe do this. a really rough break up that is long term. but um even the death of a child or something. i do not think pain is different just because it is physical. 
ntereviewer: yes. and so during this time of hardship, um, what would you say has changed and stayed the same and i am going to ask about kind of some specific domains. so, as far as like your work functioning, your vocational functioning what stayed the same and then what is different?
um, well my work right now is as a student. i have been able to keep my grades up. um, the biggest thing that has changed i guess is how i do it. you know, it is difficult some times to write too much or to use the computer too much, but they do not think i am damaging anything by using my hands too much or doing too much movement so i just sort of work through it any ways. and i have registered with the disabilities office, so they have given me some extensions and some helpful things.
ntereviewer: yes. how about your social functioning? like with either family, or romantic relationships, or friends, or acquaintances, um, what has stayed the same and what is different now? 
um, my family has been the same, i am really lucky that they believe me. a lot of people with chronic pain they do not have family support because they think you are just being lazy or you are just whining, whatever. but my mom was a nurse so yeah; she took one look at me and was like you are not okay. um, friends it is sort of going downhill, i just do not have the energy really most days to interact with people or to really give them the full attention that they need. and it is limiting, i mean how can you say yes i still want to be friends with you know i have not talked to you in two months, and every time you text me i might text back a few days later.
ntereviewer: and then how about your personality what do you think has stayed the same and what do you think is different? 
um, i think i have always been a positive person and i think that that is helping me um but i am i think yeah it has mostly stayed the same. maybe i am a little bit more realistic about what i can do. and more willing to say you know i am tired today, i am not going to put on real pants, it is going to be a great day. or, you know even just to say it is okay to just have a random crying jag between classes, you know, just focus on what you want to do. 
ntereviewer: okay. and to what extent and in what ways do you feel like this hardship controls your life?
um, well there is, i still have more long term goals, you know, i do want to be a nurse. and, that is, i am not letting this stop me from that. um, i might have to change depending on the ultimate diagnosis what sort of nursing i get into but yeah i do not think it rules every detail of my planning for the future, but it does really have an impact on most of my day. i mean there is not a time when i am not thinking about how much pain i am in. 
ntereviewer: yes. and to what extent or you know and how well do you feel like you are able to control your mental state during this hardship?
h, it is awful. i am all over the place sometimes. but you know i can function, sometimes, i have learned that you really cannot push through things sometimes you just have to back off a bit you just have to give yourself a break. then you return to the task at hand, and that is easier then you just try to push through things and you are sobbing into your math homework. 
ntereviewer: yes, um, and, how have others been affected by your mental state? 
um, it has worried my parents to death really, and my friends feel neglected. but, you know they all try to be there for me so there is probably mostly an increase in concern that is what i would say. 
ntereviewer: and then how do you think others influence your mental state at that time, or at the time of this hardship?
um, i cannot really say that they do, but if i, if my pain is really, really bad then i just shut out everyone else, you know. i cannot really push through it too much so it is difficult for them to influence it, you know they can be a source of positivity though too. 
ntereviewer: yes. and my last question is um, what do you see ahead for yourself in the future?
um, i do not know, i have to wait for more tests really. yeah.
ntereviewer: yes. and how about in general? 
n, i do not know you know. i could die. um, i could be in constant pain for the rest of my life, it could get worse, you know, i could become dependent on god knows what sort of pain medicine, or i could wake up one day and it is completely gone. there is sort of this level of uncertainty that i have sort had to live with for a long time now, so.
ntereviewer: and is there anything else you want to add to your story?
no i think that is it. 
ntereviewer: okay. 
k, well, all my life i only had my mom, um, my dad wasnt around um so it was just me and my mom and um my two brothers, um then, and we lived in a house in [address], we all stayed in [address], been up there a long time. um, so, eventually my mom, dad and i, which is now my stepdad, his name is [name] and my moms name is [name]. um, well, eventually we all moved into a house next to my grandparents house and um, well my mom and stepdad had, um, another baby so um now i had three brothers and one sister. um, im the oldest of all of my siblings and, um, well i dont really talk to my dads side because i mean we, he doesnt, they dont come to us so we dont contact them. but um my dad was never really around, he only came around for my graduation for high school and um after that i mean we never talked but um, my mom is pretty much doing it all on her own because my stepdad and her are eventually getting a divorce. but um shes trying to help me get through college and um also she is trying to get through college, she um she graduates next week from ivy tech and i mean shes culinary arts, shes a really good cook and she loves to bake um, me on the other hand, im not a very good cook (laughs), i dont, its not that i dont try, well i guess i dont try, i just (laughs) i never really got in a kitchen that actually cook. my brother, i have a brother that, i actually have nine brothers, but theyre not all in, were not all in one house. um, my dad has a lot of kids (laughs) but and my um, my other brothers theyre all younger than me also, but they live with [name], she isnt with my dad anymore but i still consider her as a mom. so shes um, she had another baby and i consider her as my little sister and also her husband as a stepdad even though he is not (laughs). but um i have a brother thats in, two brothers that are in high school, sorry four, but im just gonna focus on the ones that live in the house with me. my two brothers that are in high school their names are [name] and [name]. one is sixteen, one is fourteen. um i have a little sister named [name] she is six years old, um, i have another little brother named [name] and he is ten years old. um, they all really mean a lot to me. um, my uh, my mom is now looking for her jobs and stuff before i graduate because um, i mean the family is really not going to be together anymore, but they will still live together. [pause] oh we moved, um weve all lived in [address] all our lives but we moved away from our grandparents home um like a year ago and now we live on [address] which is a really bad neighborhood. um but now my mom is thinking about moving here with me and um going back to school so thats pretty great. but um my brothers, my older, younger, brothers thats right under me he doesnt want to move here so my mom might let him and stay and go to a different school with my grandparents but um, ive had a pretty good life (laughs), cant complain, um im christian, i try my best to do what is right and i have my brothers and my sisters looking up to me so im trying to get through college as best as i can, um, hopefully my brother comes here in two years, well next year, when he graduates. um, but thats basically it (laughs). 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ection ii: illness narrative
um, yes. um, well, um i have a boyfriend and weve been together for two years now. um, his mom passed away on thanksgiving last year and it was pretty hard for him and we tried to be strong for him, like it was kind of hard cause me and his mom was pretty close but um yeah so i went back to [address] for the funeral and i was just trying to be there for him, make sure he was ok and, um, another crisis was um i stay in [address] uh so i couldnt, i was having a little trouble with the getting money to pay rent and they sent me an eviction letter saying that they were gonna, i had this amount of time to move out, or come up with the money, so my family all like came together to help me pay for it, so thats pretty, it turned out pretty well. and my boyfriend is doing well also.
um, well like the very next day i started having like back problems um so, no it was after the funeral i was coming home and um i was on the bus and my back just started hurting really really bad do im trying to figure out like whats going on with me, there was a guy sitting right next to me and hes like asking me if im ok and, not knowing i was crying, tears just start falling and so when i finally got back to um, got back here, um, i called my auntie and she took me to the hospital the next day and they were just saying like um it could have just been from stress and other things so they gave me a prescription, told me like to try it out and see if that helps and it did help so i dont have to take it anymore, but it was just from like stress and stuff so it helped.
ntervewer: in the past have you felt an equal or greater distress to this time or was this kind of the most?
um, i think its kind of the most serious i mean i was trying to get through college and like i couldnt really afford some of the rent and then my boyfriends mom passed away and it was just a lot that hit me at the same time.
um, im not really sure what could have caused them but i know that god was with me and he wouldnt put too much on me that i couldnt handle, so.
read and ask for family support and i have a roommate thats my friend and shes also supportive 
um well after the funeral and everything i just couldnt stop thinking about how i would feel if my mom was to pass away, so yeah its just something that i dont want to happen but cant stop from happening 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ection iii: whats wrong vs. whats not wrong
um well actually i wasnt working at the time that all of this happened and i was just trying to get a job at [location] so there wasnt really much stress about work or anything 
no, actually. well my family was really supportive and even though my boyfriends mom passed away he was still like concerned about me and like he does his family he was trying to stay strong for his siblings 
um well for like a couple weeks i was just like quiet (laugh) well i am pretty quiet i dont really like to talk in front of people or period, im very to myself so it wasnt really anything not too, my friends could tell i was like out of it like i just was to myself, i wouldnt talk, i wouldnt, well i would eat (laugh) but i wouldnt talk 
uld think about is um like my mom passing away, like it was just a lot of thoughts of that. so that would um, that would like make me cry and stuff just thinking about it
(pause) i wouldnt say that it controlled my life it just, i would say control to the things that i do now um like i appreciate things more. um, ive always been grateful for what anyone or anything that happened or someone gives me i dont like complain about it. um, yeah ive just been really grateful for my family and friends 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ection iv: degree of influence of illness construct
tually i wasnt able to control it like my emotions were all out of control. um, i almost cried during my interview at [address] i was just waiting for the interview to be over, my emotions were really out of control 
um well my roommates they were like really worried about me, what i was thinking, or they wanted me to talk to them but i just couldnt, im not really good with talking to people about how i feel 
realized that i shouldnt just be, i shouldnt be so down about something that um i couldnt control, so um i just prayed and i realized that my boyfriend was like really strong for him to go through that that um i just kind of like looked up to him, how he was doing and how hes doing now is a huge difference from how he was when his mom first passed away 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ection v: the future, hopefulness and satisfaction?
um well i see myself becoming a teacher. i really love kids um and one day i hope to either have my own daycare or um work at a school
o i was born in speedway, indiana. my dad, my brother and my mom lived in that house. uh my earliest memory is probably kindergarten. my parents didnt want us going to that township because it was run down, so we went to ben davis schools instead.  so always remember driving to my aunts house to get on the bus in the morning. um i really dont remember much until i was eleven and there was a really bad storm and our house caved in, um, so all of our belongings were ruined. we had to live with family members and friends for about 6 months until insurance kicked in so that was weird. and then we finally got an apartment in avon um then while our house was being built so we moved there. and then nothing really significant happens, intermediate school, middle school, um i had my tonsils taken out, that was huge. i was in the hospital for a while and right after that i had mono. so i was out of school for a while. and then high school me and my parents disconnected. i had a really bad boyfriend. he was physically abusive so my mom found out, got a restraining order on him. um i continued to see him. so thats probably where me and my dad disconnected. we havent has a relationship really since all of that happened, um. i dont know how much detail you want me to go into here. 
much detail as you remember. 
um ok so. well he was really awful. he got me pregnant when i was 16. my parents, my mom pretty much said if you have the baby you can leave and not talk to us anymore so, i had an abortion. that was a huge thing of my life. it was a thing i didnt want to do. andi felt i obviously didnt have a choice; i was pressured into doing it. um but now ive healed from it. ive realized it was the right thing to do. um but that was a huge thing. my mom made me transfer schools for a year and put me in counseling and all this crazy stuff. even after that, even after all that hed been to jail multiple times for abuse and  i continued to see him. and basically it took one more time and he really beat my face in and i realized i couldnt go home. and i was 18 at this point so i realized if i went home then my mom is going to know i was talking to him and she would just kick me out at this point. so i just didnt go home for a few days and well it was probably more than that because i had a black eye um and i havent talked to him since. so thats that. um that was just a huge horrible chunk of my life and im 20 now, so im over it, its 2 years ago. i have a boyfriend that im dating since that and he was my friend through all of that so were really close. um so right now, its my junior year of college. i started college right after high school to be a nurse. i tried to get into the nursing program here at iupui but um its tough and competitive and thats probably the biggest stressor of my life right now so im going to try to go to ivy tech this year and pretty much get my xxxx in there this year and then transition back to here. i dont know so thats 
o within the last two years would you say youve experience a, you know, crisis or time of hardship thats caused you emotional distress? 
yeah right after christmas, and right before new years this year, my dad and my brother- well ok my mom and my dad got in to it, and basically my dad was threatening suicide which is not ever ok to talk about or joke about but especially because thats how my grandpa killed himself and my moms mom- or my moms dad. so thats touchy with my mom. so it was a huge argument. my mom said that shes not happy, that she wants him to leave. well thats when he started threatening that stuff. my dad locked himself in their bedroom. my brother who is 2 years older than me  was just concerned about his safety, he pretty much beat down the door, my dad attacked him. they got into a physical altercation and my dad ended up chasing my brother out the stairs and my brother kicked him in the face down the stairs. i guess, i wasnt home at this point, but he was like knocked out at the bottom of the stairs with a shoeprint and his nose was bleeding and his lip was busted so um they so basically my mom said she was going to divorce him. and she didnt so, my brother wont come home and he hasnt been home for how long ago is that now, 5 months. so its a lot different and its hard at family functions and i miss my brother. it feel like im an only child now so um its been tough. 
o now im going to ask a couple questions about this hardship. so how would you describe your mental state during this time? 
um its tough because i already have an off mental state anyways but im very emotional, so my mom , i hate seeing my mom cry. shes been crying and shes upset that my brother wont come home and i mean yeah it doesnt make me emotionally stable. 
nd in the past have you ever felt and equivalent or greater stress than this hardship right now? 
yeah i would say the whole relationship or everything that happened with that guy was a huge, that was a mess. 
nd in your mind, what caused the difficulties that you experienced with this hardship now?  
what caused it? so, honestly i would say my mom, this isnt the first time that shes said that she would divorce my dad . me and my brother know how ridiculous he is. he will even admit to it- or she will admit that she recognizes all of it but she will always go back to him and honestly this is all kind of on her. 
nd how did you recuperate from this hardship?  
well i would say that it kind of had a negative effect. i havent really recuperated because i just avoid home now, kind of. and i would just say that i rely a lot more on my boyfriend and my friends just to keep me away from family really. 
nd can you imagine a similar kind of situation that results in a similar state of mind or even worse? 
probably worse. i would say that theres always worse things that this but um yeah ive experienced worse things and there is worse things to come. 
nd so during this time of hardship, what changed and what stayed the same? so im going to ask about a couple areas of your life. so as far as like your school functioning and work functioning, what stayed the same and whats different now? 
i would say this has impacted my school. i dont even want to be home to do homework or anything um and working it might have helped because i want to be at work more, i guess im making more money but also ive been at work so much that ive been frustrated with it. 
nd how about your social functioning? so, you know, with your family, your romantic relationships, or your friends, whats stayed the same and whats changed? 
i dont know the whole relationship aspect it kind of makes me think i dont know. my parents have been together for 20 years and they still cant work it out you know like i dont know. it makes me question how relationships are and the trust aspect and everything. but its kind of open friendships with new friends that i talk to that i never would have thought id talk to about this stuff. 
nd how about romantic relationships? or family? how have things changed or stayed the same? 
well since my brother moved out, we dont talk very much hes busy and its just very weird. hes living with his girlfriend. its just so weird that hes going around and we dont really get together that much so i dont really know what hes doing anymore. it is, its just a lot different. 
nd how about with your personality? whats changed and whats stayed the same since this hardship? 
i dont know, i wouldnt say much has changed. maybe just, its been on my mind a lot especially when it was a huge mess at first, so maybe i was quiet or more to myself or something. 
nd how about the way you think or your emotions?  whats changed and whats stayed the same? 
i think its just added to my stress level and in college the stress level are already extreme, so definitely more tearful than i should be ever and i dont know. i guess ive always been pretty emotional, so thats stayed the same. 
nd to what extent and in what ways do you feel like the hardship controlled your life? 
well its just something that i cant get away from. my parents are always going to be my parents whether theyre together or not but its not something you can run away from because its right there and even at like family birthdays and stuff where everyone gets together, its either my dads not going or my brothers not going, so its, thats a lot different. 
nd to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during this hardship? 
there was definitely a few times i was not ok. i left school just because i was upset or mom called me at work and she was upset so i got upset and i had to leave so, things like that have happened. 
nd how have others, how have they been affected by your mental state? 
definitely stressed my boyfriend out a little bit, hes a trooper for putting up with me when im like that but yeah i think i was stressing him out because i was so upset for a bit there. 
nd how did others affect your mental state? 
my best friends definitely helped and they knew exactly what to say to see the positive side of things. 
nd what do you see ahead of yourself for the future. 
in regards to that situation? 
n general. 
well i hope that my family can all get along one day and i hope i can become a nurse and move them to florida with me. 
there anything you want to add to your story?
no. 
k so i was born in orange county, california.  it was twenty years ago, almost twenty-one years ago.  i moved when i was three because my family didnt like the environment that california had for raising a family, so they had family over in indiana so we moved as a unit over there.  um, that always caused conflict between my mom and my dads side of the family cause they felt they were taking their only blood relative away from them.  so, that has been an ongoing thread throughout my life is conflicts with that, which started when i was born.  um, so when we moved out here i started kindergarten here, and i remember being pretty friendly and pretty outgoing during my younger years.  and, i had a couple close friends, i remember kind of being teased a little bit back then, not so much as in later stages of life, um, but it was definitely not a problem then.  i was, like i said, pretty outgoing.  i would you know talk to the teachers and students alike.  i was pretty well, you know, liked in my class, and then i moved to a new school and i was ok there, it was a change in trying to get new friendships again, leaving the old ones behind, because we were so young there wasnt really much contact with them.  so, um, i moved to that school and at that time i was really a people- pleaser, and i just wanted to make my parents proud, so i went all out, like i did choir, i did you know academics, like i wanted to make sure that everything i could do and get on the honor roll every semester and just really please my parents.  and so, um, i did get, i wouldnt say ostracized by the four most popular girls, but i thought we were pretty good friends and then the talent show came up and i wanted to kinda do something with them, they said that they had already arranged something, so i was kind of booted out and left on my own to do whatever, which didnt really end very well (laugh).  it ended up me being, um, you know, just not even practicing, not even really giving a care about it, and when, you know, show time came, i just did really poorly cause i just didnt care.  so then, in fifth grade, i moved again to a new school so i had to get acclimated with new friends and again, um, i didnt really keep in contact much with the friends back there, um, and that was prior to facebook and stuff, so, didnt really have a way to contact them.  um, i was also during throughout this time dealing with really bad separation anxiety that i actually had to go see a counselor for, and if i was away from my parents for more than, you know, just a typical school day then i would start getting really, really antsy.  i would, i wouldnt be able to go over to sleepovers because id have to be driven home because my panic attacks were so fierce and they would come on really suddenly.  so, a lot of my friends kept kinda dropping off because of that, because i was kind of seen as not normal, abnormal, and something was wrong with me, they would say.  um, and they just didnt understand at that time what was going on.  so, that didnt help anything, like it just made my anxiety even worse.  so, um, after fifth grade, i went to another new school.  had to start friendships over again, and only one lasted up till this day, and were still really good friends, and i feel like its because we both have, um, some really, he has a lot of family issues, i have a lot of personal issues, so we kinda can see eye-to-eye on a lot of things and he understands and empathizes with me on that.  but then, in high school, i went ninth grade to this christian school where i was at and then i moved to public school.  and, i tried to get, you know, back to my elementary school self where i was just gung-ho about everything, and joined literary magazine, but i still felt like i was the odd ball out, because all of the friendship groups had already formed back in middle school because the way that the school system is set up in fishers and pretty much anywhere is that the middle schools feed into the high schools, so these groups of friends were already established way beyond when i came into the picture.  and, i wasnt a theater person, i wasnt an athlete, i wasnt, i was just kind of a floater, so i always felt kind of ostracized by those certain groups.  so, i tried forming my own groups and getting into like an academic club kind of setting, and i just didnt feel like there was cement in those relationships.  and then, all throughout this time in high school and into my early college years, um, i began to really just not care if i pleased my parents or not and pretty much kinda just rebelled, um, you know, the normal adolescent kind of attitude.  and, so i began kind of looking at what i believe in, what my ideals are, what my morals are, if i wanna stay with this religion, if i dont.  cause, i come from a predominantly christian family, and im not, and, um, once i got into college, i went to taylor university for my first semester, and went over to ireland, spent three months there, and during that whole time, it was the same exact thing as i got in high school, as i got in middle school, as i got in elementary school.  there was already a, cliques formed during there, and i wasnt a part of any of them.  and it was only a small group of like 26 so i thought, great, 26 people i have a chance of getting to know some people!  no, i always found myself going to dublin alone, or going and doing my own thing most of the time, even when other groups would go out and do stuff, i would be the odd ball out.  and, ive kind of carried that insecurity and anxiety about my relationships throughout this whole thing, like, i came here, and im still trying to find my niche, and its just really, really difficult now because ive moved so many times throughout my life that i really didnt get settled with a group of friends that i could contact and get together with and just really feel like a part of a group, and it didnt really help that i had these anxiety issues, which just made that whole process of being separated even worse.  and so, its been a real difficult challenge, especially in relationships, because i, once i get into a relationship, im just so serious about it because i want to attach myself to that person because i havent had anything stable.  so, when i attach to that person, like, my longest lasting relationship ended up where he was cheating on me for the entirety of the relationship, which was 11 months, which was really hard to swallow.  um, even being in a you know 3 month relationship its hard to swallow, but almost being a relationship for a year and having that end, and so, ive just kind of seen this trend of going from relationship to relationship to relationship, just trying to find somewhere that i can like attach to, and i just, i dont feel at all healthy in my relationships because i have this anxiety, i have this separation, and i havent really been able to learn how to form healthy relationships that are stable and actually last for a long time.  so, its just been a really hard type of scenario throughout my life, trying to find some stability, when i myself, im not really that stable because of my anxiety.  because ive dealt with depression, ive dealt with these certain things.  so, its just been really hard kind of going through life with this, um, wall up and not being, and even when i want to step out of my comfort zone, when i do, theres no positive repercussions from that, its just the same typical thing, over and over again.  and its kind of conditioned me to not be open with people as much, or at least not be, i dont know what its like to have a stable relationship.  so when it gets past the first couple months, i dont know what to do, so i feel like i sabotage it, you know, because im just, i dont know what to do in that situation, and i just feel like its a self-fulfilling prophecy.  you know, i get into these relationships that may not be good for me, or they may be good for me, but i still have that same end, where i sabotage it, like i get the person mad at me, or i do something to self-sabotage, or something, and it just doesnt really work out for me, so the relationship ends, and thats what im used to is that cycle.  and, ive just been really trying to, you know, work with school and stuff but getting out of that cycle.  but, its really difficult because youre not just dealing with the surface-level things, youre dealing with, ok after those couple of months and getting out of that acquaintance, you know, level , what do i do?  because ive been going down this path and i have to do like a complete 180 and override my natural instinct because ive been in so many bad relationships that have just been really unstable.  so, thats my life in a nutshell, and where im here now (laugh), so, yeah.  so, i dont know, does that answer the question?
yeah, um, in the last two years, yeah i have, um, been subject to emotional and psychological distress. um, i went through that break up with my boyfriend of 11 months.  and, the way that he did it was just so awful.  he broke up with me over facebook.  and then i had to get my stuff a couple weeks later and thats when he told me you know i was cheating the entire time.  so i went through this whole identity crisis and you know, just, it was really hard.  i dont think ive ever emotionally been so drained after that, just, just because i was sobbing every night going to sleep.  i didnt know what i did wrong, what i did to make him choose that, why he would do that, why he wouldnt just let me go, you know, after the first couple months if he had those feelings for that other girl.  you know, i just didnt understand why when i felt like i gave everything to that relationship why that was the end.  so i had this whole emotional crisis. and, um, i actually had to get some, um, counseling and go to the stress center because i did um, like, start self-harming.  and it got really bad at a point.  i was never really suicidal, um ,i never got hospitalized for it, i wasnt, you know, on the extreme end, but i was still extreme enough to worry my parents and to worry myself really when i you know kind of came to my senses.  um, but it was a really rough time and um, i just jumped from one relationship to the next after that to try to repair some of the damage which just resulted in more damage, but, it was really hard. and, its, its been, its been a challenge, and im still kind of getting over the mental blocks that was put up after that, um really bad relationship about letting that special person in, and you know, really seeing myself as i am and not the image i present, so.
really, really unstable.  um, because, unstable, because i was just so, you know, often you know, up and down. like i would be really, really, um, defeat, i would have a defeatist mentality for some of it, but then, like, so rapidly i would go through the cycle of, ok, i am so good right now, and i can do this, i can get over this, im gung-ho about it, to, im not going to move on from this, i am done, like, life just needs to like, just let me , you know, sleep in my bed 24 hours a day and not. so, i was just going through those cycles of these up and down periods and they were really rapid, too. it was like, almost every other day that i was going through either the defeatist, or the like, so power, like yeah, i can do it! so, it was, i would really say it was unstable because of those cycles i was going through. and i dont know if its just because i do have that anxiety, separation-driven, you know, i wouldnt, i dont know, you know, um, disorder, i guess. or if it was just because it was, i was trying to get over it, but then a different side of me wasnt letting me, and i was trying to get over it, and it wouldnt let me. so i was just resisting myself.  so i dont know if it was both or if it was one or the other. but, i really still havent figured that out. but, it doesnt matter because ive moved on, so.
tually, yeah, um, im in a relationship now, and we hardly get to see each other because were so busy.  but, that separation anxiety has like, has moved from my parents over to my significant other.  and, evidently thats really typical in cases where you experienced anxiety in your childhood.  it shifts over to your significant other.  so not being able to see him, only texting him some days, maybe getting a phone call here and there, its become really, really hard to stay stable in that relationship because i get so, um, i get so, i get so antsy and really irritated and really frustrated that i cant see him more often, and he really doesnt understand the whole anxiety issue, so hes just thinking ok, whats wrong, because somethings not right here, so i dont know if im doing something wrong, and then he just says the wrong things that are totally, just make me even more upset and i really regret it afterwards.  but it seems to be every week, weekend, you know, end of the week because i go through, ok, i see him on the weekends sometimes, so for a couple days im good, i, you know, im trying to do my best, you know, staying up with all the stress of school and work, and, you know, all my other responsibilities, and then by the end of the week im just so physically drained that i really dont have the mental capacity to hold in, or try to be happy about the situation so i just kinda let things go. and i become really irritated and really angry and really distraught sometimes.  and it just makes for a really, you know, unstable relationship.  and i know its nothing hes doing because hes doing all that he can to see me more, to call me more.  hes being wonderful.  but its just the fact that i have this anxiety problem that does not make for a really good healthy relationship.  so, im not sure what im gonna do about that, if its an ongoing problem like it has been, ill probably see someone about it and see what they say.  im really thinking about going back to therapy just because i dont feel like im handling the stress of school and the stress of a relationship, and then, not really having a relationship with my parents, um, just because of those really strong differences that we have, um, i think it would really kind of, um, it would benefit me to see someone about the problems that ive been having.  just trying to keep everything together and everything level.  and i have just been going up and down again. so, i might, you know, have to see someone about that.  and it may just be really good to talk to someone about it because i dont have that friend base, so, the person that im really close friends with, we only see each other once a week, and hes not really into talking about feelings or talking about whats going on, and then, just recently, i, um, well not recently, but the past few months, my ex-best friend now, she used to be the one that i could always go to and talk about my problems and all of a sudden she cut me off, and i reached out to her twice, and shes just ignored me, and i havent gotten any closure on that, and so its been, its been really rough not having her.  um, and ive had to kind of learn how to deal with things on my own, but, again, i just dont feel like im really handling it all too well, anymore.  so.  i dont know if i ever have (laugh).
probably most of them have been caused by myself and my way of thinking because ive been in so many unstable relationships that this is what im used to, and the way that im acting in my relationship and my friendships is just the, ive been conditioned to act that way.  and its really hard to override that conditioning, um, when youre just so used to that pattern and to that outcome.  and, so i would really say that the most challenging and most, the most responsible person is me.  im my own worst enemy right now.  and i know it, and its just kind of getting over those hurdles and trying to accept myself for who i am and not rely so heavily on other peoples approval of me.  um, not so much my parents but just society in general, and my peers of course. so, its just getting that, getting over that need for being approved by my friends and by my peers around me um, because of what i do and what i dont do. so, its really myself that im up against.
um, well, im in the process, i guess, of recuperating. im trying to, to just take a breather.  ive been trying to meditate.  trying to get to that balanced sense of self, and, um, its kind of helping, but again, i think making the decision and the appointment to go see someone, really talk about these issues in a way that they may be able to um, retrain me in the way that i view relationships, or at least give me some coping skills for my anxiety, um, would be really fantastic in my recuperating process. i do feel that im still in the problem stage, and i, before i even begin to think about recuperation i have to deal with the problem because there have been so many times when i just deal with the symptoms and im not actually dealing with the actual problem. so i feel like i have to do that first, and then i can get more and more recuperated from those.  but in my specific examples that i said, getting enough sleep, you know, talking to my friends that i had at those points of time, just trying to relax, doing something fun with my friends, you know, just trying to get my mind off of the problems that i was having were real examples of recuperation at those points of time, and right now, i guess you could say.
yeah, i can.  just because there is such an underlying cycle to this, that i go through a period of happiness and joy and just feeling like life is great, and then, the next moment feeling that life is just terrible, and i suck at everything, and i dont have any, you know, self-confidence, and i just kinda wanna crawl into bed and never have to deal with society again.  so, yeah, i definitely can see this happening again.  i mean, im still going through it, so, which is why i can see those situations occurring.  it doesnt really necessarily messes up my day-to-day life, because i can still drive a car, i can still get up and get out of bed and work and go to school, and im doing pretty well in my classes.  so its not to the point where ive given up everything.  but there are moments when i just lay in bed and not do anything.  and i could be using that time to do homework, to study for that test that i need to do well on, but i just dont.  and i just feel really defeated by that because it doesnt make me feel any better the next morning, its like, should of used that time to get things done, so, its just, its a constant battle with myself, because you know, i give in to that dark side, but then, like the next morning, im like, why did i do that? its just, its really frustrating, because i know that i can do better, but at the same time, im like i cant do any better than what im doing right now (laugh).  so its just, its really a self-battle.
no, not in the ways of work.  i did, um, the day that i had to work, i was working at a different job than what i do now, um, i had to go home early because i could not function. i was, you know, just moping around, didnt have any energy to do anything, wasnt myself. just really, you know, just, i would term it as squidward, from spongebob. like, i was just, such a jerk.  and, it was just, it was not because i wanted to be, it was just because of the situation that i was in at that time. like, the boyfriend that i had for 11 months that i thought was really faithful to me like, just broke up to me, and i had to go into work, like a few hours after that. and, so, i had to go, but that was the only day that i ever stopped working.  the rest of it, you know, i was there on time every day. um, it didnt really change the way that i worked, or that i you know, i was in school at the time, so, you know, i got a b+ on my final, you know, on all my finals i did really well on. so i just kind of threw myself into work and school that way i didnt slack off or not be able to work and lose my job and lose my income because i was paying for iupui at the time.  um, everything that wasnt covered by fafsa, so i needed that job, and i knew that, so just the responsibilities that i had, to keep going, just helped me along in that sort of way.  but, i would say the only thing that was different was just my relationship to my family had changed because i didnt feel like i could really tell them a lot of things because they were already so judgmental of that relationship, so when it ended, they were like, rejoicing, and they were really vocal about it, which didnt make me feel any better.  i was like, im like grieving this end of this relationship and youre over here like having a party behind my back, and that makes me feel really good. and i think that was the only real difference that changed in me during that period, was my relationship to my family, and it was for the worse.
um, definitely, family relationships.  i dont have a lot of friendships, casual or close, so i did rely heavily on my friends, and they were there for the most part for me.  um, my best friend, who is still my best friend now, he actually worked with the guy that i was dating, thats how we met, and so he completely cut him off too, just because he saw how painful it was for me. so, that strengthened my relationship with him, but on the same token it just made me realize i could not go to my family for support or for care or anything. because they were acting so, you know, they were acting so happily about it, and they werent asking me are you ok, are you alright, you want to talk about things, do you need counseling, do you need us to go with you somewhere?  they were mainly concerned with, yes, this relationship is over, we are so happy about that, like you are so much better off, that dude was a loser, you know, he didnt care about you, were so happy that its done, and its over, we were praying for this.  like, those kinds of statements that were just, it was like, i dont need to hear that right now.  you know, i am trying to move on from this relationship, and statements like that its just not helping.  and, it was really hard.  so family really, really, really decreased at that time, but my friendships pretty much stayed the same, and in regards to my best friend, it increased actually, so.
y personality has become a lot, i mean, probably from this interview it seems that im an outgoing kind of person and i can easily talk about these things, but really, this is just an image that i put on. like, a couple months ago, i dont know, probably 6 or 7 months ago, i probably could not tell this story without just sobbing. and, i became really closed off to people, and i just stopped trying, like with relationships in general. like, romantic relationships, i you know, went on dating sites, and whatever, but like with friendships and just with making friends at school, at work, you know, i was like, i really dont want to.  like, its just going to end the same way, so why even try?  you know, why even get myself into that when im already dealing with so much emotional pain already from this relationship. so, i was like, you know what, im just, im done, so i became kinda closed off, and really um, i protected myself a lot from people knowing the true me, and i became more and more isolated, and having that anxiety problem is really ironic to be isolated because i dont like to be separated from people that i really love, or that, you know just people in general.  so, its really ironic that i chose to be, to isolate myself, when at that time, and now, i still have anxiety issues about separation and being alone, so, i guess my life is just one big irony statement, but you know, its whatever.
um, it did because at that time i was still kind of on the fence about religion and about how i perceived the world, and i was still pretty much an optimist at that point, but after that i didnt want anything to do with religion, you know, any type of religion, i didnt want anything to do with, um, with that aspect.  and then, you know, i just really began being really self, i became really spiteful toward myself after that, because i felt that it was something that i did.  like maybe i was just too much for him, so he had to go to someone else that he knew was the partier and who didnt really care and, you know, was a lot easier to deal with than i, so i really put the blame on myself.  and i was really spiteful about it.  and so, um, that began really changing my self-image. and that, that just totally turned my self-confidence inside out.  it made me feel really, really, um, just really bad about myself.  like i felt so bad that, you know, i had to put myself through that situation, and i was to blame for it, there wasnt really any blame on him at that point in time.  obviously now that has changed (laughs), but at that point i just felt really uncomfortable with myself, in every aspect.  i hardly looked in a mirror after that, i didnt want anything to do with myself really.  and i did what i had to do work-wise and school-wise, but other that i just really didnt enjoy life, i was just going through the motions, and that was a really big change and it was really scary to be that way.
t controlled every aspect of my life, um, you know, and thats the thing, i was in this power struggle with the situation because i didnt want to relinquish control over to that situation because i knew what happened, happened. and, there was nothing i could do about it, so why let it affect you for so long. but, on the same token, i was so hurt, and it just, it left me really hollow inside. and i just felt empty and i felt drained and i felt completely at a loss for everything.  and it was just it was really hard.  it controlled, it still somewhat controls me now.  because i feel like i dont ever get over it, really, and i dont ever really get over any situation.  so, its been a really tough battle, and i would definitely say that the situation took control 100% of my life during probably a 4 month block. and then i started, you know, getting a little bit better here and there about, you know, letting things go here and there, i couldnt let the whole thing go at once, but i started letting things go like, blaming only myself for things, you know, i let that go, and i let what happened go, you know, i still harbored some pain from that, but slowly and surely ive let it go, and its probably now like a 30-25 % control over my life, and newer situations have control now.  but i always, i always feel like im not in control of my emotions, all the time, i feel like, the situation that spurs the emotions are in control.
had, i had a lot of difficulties.  just trying to move on, to be happy, it takesa lot of mental strength, and you know, just getting into it i was really mentally weak on that end because i did have self-esteem problems and i did have self-confidence problems, and going into that situation, having already a weak mental state, it just made things even worse.  and, ive had to kind of rebuild and restructure things mentally.  and its still, i can still see a lot of the scars from that situation that are still affecting me now, but it definitely, um, it definitely did not let me control a lot of my mental thoughts, it really, i was really a harsh critique of myself, and a lot of hate came from that, towards myself.  i didnt really open up to people about what i was going through.  everyone pretty much thought i had gotten over it, and really i hadnt i just didnt want anyone to know what i was going through, cause i thought people would think less of me, you know.  well she, she cant get over it, thats a sign of weakness, you know, shes not mentally strong, shes letting this get to her, she needs to just let it go. those are the kinds of thoughts that i thought about what other people would tell me if i let them (excuse me) into everything that was going on inside.
um, my parents were really worried, just because i wasnt acting myself, um, i didnt really let them in to too much, and they were constantly worried and checking up on me, which pretty much got annoying but i understood why they were doing it.  um, as far as my friendships go, andy, my best friend, was really concerned about me, and, um, so was katie at the time, which was my ex-best friend. but, um, a lot of people werent that affected, except for my parents, obviously, were affected by this.  as much to my knowledge, they havent come out and said this situation really bothered me, and really made me, this this and this, so from my perspective, it didnt really harm a lot of my friendships, but it did harm the relationship i had with my family because i pretty much didnt let them in on anything, and, you know, part of thats my fault because i just, i didnt want to deal with what i expected the criticism, and the judgments, and that sort of thing would be.  so, i just didnt, i didnt open up, i just didnt want to be hurt over and over again by their comments and their judgments and their critiques and everything else, so.
um, andy made me happy a lot of the time, just because hes a jokester, he likes to live kind of lightly and make fun of things, and also, since he was a friend of my ex, hes the one that confronted him about how he treated me, and how poorly it was, and that i deserved way better, and that really he could not understand why a human being would do that to a person.  and when he told me that, it really, it really made me happy, and it made me really grateful for the friendship, the such strong frirnedhsip that we had together, and it really, it really made me think about how great of a friendship that we had, and it just made it stronger.
hope stability, i hope tranquility, i hope peace, and i hope just getting to the point where ican be happy with myself, and that way it doesnt hinder any other aspect of my life, you know, whether it be getting my degree, or moving up in my job, or getting a pay raise, or, you know, working on my family relationships. you know, whatever it may be, i just have to, i have to deal with this problem head on because it is affecting and starting to affect other areas of my life a lot more adversely than it did in the past. so, i see myself getting help, honestly, and um, and hopefully just getting to the point where i can be ok mentally and emotionally, and you know, physically, cause a lot of this stress has created a lot of you know, stomach issues, and just nervousness, not feeling very well, and its just really drained my body, just in general.  so im always tired, im always lacking in energy, and its just, its been really hard on my body just to go through all of this stress, so, i would say, i would say thats what i want ahead.  that may not happen, but thats what i want, so.
nope.
um, well, i was born in [location], um.  and, i have two older sisters that are fifteen and seventeen years older than me, so quite a bit older, and um, we lived in a house, um, i lived there for a couple years with my parents and my sisters, and then my parents built a house, so we moved there whenever i was like two years old, and ive lived there up until this point, so, thats kind of, you know like, thats what i call home.  um, so i havent moved around a whole lot, um.  im originally from [location], and its a small town that is just an hour west of [location], and um.  lets see, growing up i went to [location] and then i went to [location] and then middle school and high school were [location].  and, um, during middle school and high school i played volleyball and basketball, and um, and then applying to colleges i applied to a few places, [locations], and i ended up choosing [location], so, um.  and now, im here, so, thats basically a little bit about me.
nterivewer: ok, have you within the last two years experienced a time of crisis or hardship that caused psychological or emotional distress?  so, it could be in relation to a difficult breakup, a death within the family, peer conflict, difficulties in school, stressful exams, anything like that?
um, i went through a pretty difficult breakup um, last spring because, well the guy i was dating, had like really, he had pretty bad depression and then that just started to like wear on me because he was like, suicidal at some points and i just couldnt be with someone like that, um.  so, i mean, i liked him as a person, but in the relationship i couldnt, and he really made that breakup super difficult, so.  thats probably the only big thing that is negative thats happened to me within the past two years, so.
um, i was really sad, and i just felt guilty for breaking up with him.  so i was just, i wasnt depressed, but i was just sad that i hurt somebody else, so.
um, i mean i have felt an equivalent, its not like a common thing, but at times, yes.
um, like what caused them?  lets see, i think its just, mostly its just all in my own mind, um, i kind of make myself feel like sometimes im maybe not good enough, or you know, im not like a jealous person, but just like based off of myself sometimes i feel like i could be doing better in other areas, then i just put myself down for it, just that kind of thing.  so, um, yeah, i guess its just kind of my own issue.
um, well, i actually just kind of tried to see the positives in myself, um, cause its just, you know, too hard to focus on all the negatives, and um, i just cant always compare myself to other people because thats just like unrealistic, so, i just had to start thinking about like, why i was, you know, a decent person, and unique, and you know, worth being thought of as a cool person, i guess.
not really.  i mean, i dont think so.
no.  i mean, i was still like, the same person, like there wasnt anything too drastic that changed with me, so.
no. not really.
um, my personality, lets see.  i feel like it did change, just because i felt like the way he reacted was unfair to me, um, so im still like, bitter towards him for reacting the way he did, um, because he was upset but he also told me he was going to kill himself, which i didnt think was fair because i mean, i couldnt help that i didnt feel the same way about him anymore, and i understand thats never fun for anyone, but i just, i guess i, i was just bitter towards him after that and i havent, that hasnt changed, like since.  and i just have wanted, like nothing to do with him since then.  which sounds bad, but i dont know i just felt like that was kind of weak on his part to put me in that position.  so, thats kind of what changed i guess with me.
well, i guess i started thinking about people with depression not differently but, since michael had like really bad depression, um, i just kind of felt really bad for people that went through that, because its something that like, other people really cant help, i mean they can with medicine and stuff, but its really within their own heads.  and so i guess i just started like really feeling sorry for people that suffered from depression.
well, um, it controlled, i guess it controlled my life for like, about a month after that just because i felt so like, bad for hurting someone that i cared about.  i just felt really overwhelmed with like, guilt, and i just was really sad about it.  and then, i guess after that i just kind of felt bitter towards him, so thats basically how.
was able to pretty well as long as i wasnt talking to him because he, we lived in different parts of indiana so, its not like the type of thing where i just see him around town, so that was good, but whenever he would call me or text me, i just, you know, did not want to talk to him.  so, yeah.
um, i wouldnt say anyone was really too affected by it.  my mom, kind of, she was the one that mostly saw me go through it, and you know, she saw me sad about it, so i guess my mom was really the only one that kind of, you know, was affected by it, but not, not really in too big of a way.  she just, you know, felt sorry for me.
um, my friends definitely influenced me positively because they kept me, um, they just helped me to see the bright side because, you know, i was graduating from high school at that time and he was already in college, so, i was just excited to go to college, and you know, meet new people, and so, i guess i would say my friends helped me stay positive, and the fact that i was kind of starting a new chapter in my life.  so, i was pretty excited about like, what was in store for me.  that didnt really hold me back, in staying positive.
um, in the future i hope to complete my degree with tourism, convention event management and hopefully minor in anthropology.  um, and of course, you know id like to get married one day and have my own family, but i kind of want to um, get my job first, so, i guess just, you know, get a stable career and then have a family, so.
yep.
no. ok, do i start?
um, im from [address] i was born there and my mom was sixteen when she had me. um i lived with my grandma and my mom but she was in and out of the house cause she was a teenager. um, when my mom, cause my mom would stay with my biological dad, um met her husband she uh had my brother who was born with his insides out so for a year, and um i was five, so for a year the whole year um i watched him in and out of the hospital and procedures and he just needed a new liver and a new kidney and then he would be fine but um 25 days before his first birthday he, i remember my mom getting the call that they had um a match for his organs and she was really excited and we left and i know it was like in the middle of the night but i went to my great-grandmas house um and my mom was at the hospital with him. um the procedure as far as i know was all fine its just that being for eleven months on drugs the whole time his system was really immune to a lot of the drugs and he wasnt responding after the procedure and the nurse basically overdoses him because she gave him another dose of it to make him respond and he had three heart attacks until my mom decided just to let him go. um i didnt know that uh my mom called my great-grandma and i can still remember her on the phone like you know that they were gonna bring me up there but i didnt know what was going on and they had turned to me and asked if i wanted to see my brother and i said yes of course cause my first, i mean basically my first sibling, cause my dad had another kid, but um so on the car ride thereand i think it was pretty long because it was in a different hospital than the small town we were inum i remember like singing in the car and being excited but they just kept looking at each other and they werent really telling me what was wrong or anything and when we got to the hospital i already knew where his room was because i had been there a few times and he just always ends up in the same area. so i got in trouble for running down the hallway um and then stopped at the door and when i looked inside he wasnt in his bed but he was in the arms of my grandpa and everyone was quiet and everyone was just like sitting in there like it was my grandma, my grandpa, my great-grandparents were behind me, my mom and my stepdad, and my uncle and my aunt and i didnt really quite understand and i knew he was gone i just didnt really understand what was going on um i guess it just kind of sucks because of the way they told me. um for like the funeral and stuff i was told to like read a poem and i did all that fine. i never cried like during the whole funeral process um i had a baby blanket that went everywhere with me that i made people like drive 45 minutes out of their way to go get if i forgot um and when i had saw him, like seen him in the casket, i touched him, i knew he was dead but i didnt understand why he was cold so i put the blanket around him and left it in the casket with him um i made everyone cry but i didnt understand at the point i was like well hes cold like i just didnt get it. um and then, like i had made him so many things and just kept putting stuff in the casket. i got told to stop but uh i remember like all the details of the funeral and stuff and then just leaving and riding back. um there was a lot of people that came back, i dont know all of the people like my stepdads family was huge um and like food and stuff was just going on and i remember like coming in and my mom just uh went into my room and my brothers room because we shared the room and his crib was still in there and i just remember her like holding onto the handle bars and screaming and crying and my stepdad trying to comfort her. um, it took, it took a minute for me to like actually cry. like i knew he was gone i just, i just couldnt figure figure it out until it finally set into me like i wasnt playing with him anymore. like, he didnt wake me up in the middle of the night crying, like it was just gone. and my mom was just gone. she was there but she was gone. um, so then um my birthday is actually [date] and his birthday was [date] so the whole month of december was just awful because he died [date] um but on january, or actually like on my birthday [date], my aunt which was my moms sister um she collapsed, she had a brain aneurysm um her daughter which would be my cousin found her, she was seven. um they were having, her and her friend were over there just for the new years eve just spending the night but it was just my aunt and the two kids and she found her, cause they went to go get her to ask for something, just laying on the floor and uh i know that my cousin stayed calm and tried to go get a neighbor but her friend like freaked out. um she was pregnant too so the baby was like two or three months premature um they were able to sustain the life inside my aunt until [date] and but she was just already brain dead, um so basically less than a month later my aunt was gone and um that funeral was different and she was cremated and i never saw her. um and my cousin wasnt exactly like in the room facing the area, she was off to the side in a separate room just by herself with her dad um obviously just crying and she was really upset, she was older than me, but i still didnt really get it. they explained to me that my brother needed an angel and they couldnt take my mom because my mom was younger and still had a lot to do um basically my aunt actually had fulfilled everything she wanted to do like she had gotten her promotion um exactly where she wanted to be and i dont know i guess she, she had what she was going for basically. um, so the baby was premature and my step uncle because it wasnt  my original uncle with him, with my cousin, he worked for well it was called [name] back then um he worked for them and they transferred him out to [address] so my mom didnt want to let the baby go with him because i mean he had custody but obviously he didnt have custody of my cousin, my other cousin, um my mom wanted to be there and take care of her so we all moved and actually it was just me, my stepdad, my mom who i had barely really seen the past few years, i didnt really know her my grandma was always the one who like took care of me, took me to school, um the baby and my uncle and his girlfriend, or new girlfriend, who he was meetingit wasnt his girlfriend at the time but it ended up being his girlfriend. um, when we moved it was just really weird um i was taken from my grandma. i didnt have contact with my biological dad and i used to because i switched from my grandmas to my biological dad all the time. um my mom was just like, i dont know, we never got along, we still dont really get along but um, so ive been here since then. um, i guess growing up my stepdad was always there for me, i didnt have contact with my biological dad until i was fourteen again, so seven years later, um and i only had contact with him because his other child which was my sister who i barely knew she was only like two or something, um she actually got in contact with my by sending me a letter with a picture and the help with her mom. and since i had contact with him like i thought it was exciting and i visited him and stuff and i used to keep a journal but i would write all the things that happened inside my house and my mom didnt like it so she told me i was gonna live with my dad and then that didnt actually go through because she wasnt going to send me away. um, but she did end up having um two other kids with my stepdad, which would be my sister who is fourteen now, well gonna be fourteen, and my brother who is twelve and ever since my baby brother was born i took more of an attachment to him um like more fond of him like i never really left his side and everyone always says like yeah hes still my favorite but i dont like actually have a favorite its just, i dont know hes my only brother i guess. um so, but my stepdad ended up having a drinking problem and he didnt start out that way but um he would go and get drunk and then he would just come home and fight with my mom and he was very angry. he never touched us but he destroyed pieces of furniture and walls and doors and everything inside the house when he would get mad and upset and my mom would call the police and they would take him away but um it just got worse and my mom finally divorced him. and he decided to basically not be in the picture of our lives either and that was when i was seventeen so i spent ten years with him or ten, eleven years with him and then he was just kind of gone like he wouldnt answer our calls and when he did answer hed be like yeah im coming to get you and he never actually did. um my brother and sister were a little bit younger and they were really upset about it. um basically everyone blames my mom and then i mean just cause of the way she treated us with like dealing with that, i dont know, my mom i dont really know how to describe her because she used to be crazy but i guess shes not really crazy anymore now that i think about it because im [age] now, its just i guess shes dealt with a lot and she just didnt deal with it as the best that she could have because um me and her never getting along is her fault obviously because she didnt make that connection with me and she hated that i grew more attached to my grandma. um a lot of times i wasnt exactly part of my mom, dad, brother, sister kind of family because they all have the same last name and my last name was completely different and then if i made a face she would say that was [name]s face, which is my biological dads face, and it was just really discouraging. and i could never please her no matter what i did, i got straight as and if i seriously had a b she flipped and i was in trouble so that was really hard and i was pushed like that all through high school too um especially after she divorced my stepdad. shes always been like a strong willed person, she doesnt let anyone tell her what to do, she does what she wants, she thinks shes always right um ive never seen her back down from anything i mean she, i know she used to like get in fights when she was younger because she was so like strong headed and just like didnt let anyone talk anything to her. but um she ended up getting with this guy who was from the [name] and he just came back from [location] and he wasnt stable at all. he had a severe problem um and he told my mom all the things he had to do in [location] um but he basically was very controlling and my mom didnt do anything about it. uh she ended up being gone like all weekend at his house and would leave me with my brother and sister um but my aunt and uncle and grandma ended up moving out to [location] when i was like ten or twelve so it just took them a few years so they were around um which caused more problems especially since i always wanted to go to my grandmas house. uh but anyways i would call my grandma or my aunt and tell them that mom hasnt come home yet. um i was really angry about it that she would bring [name] and [name] over to his house and i went once before and i just didnt like him because he was just, he just wasnt right like the way he spoke to my mom i was just like what, i had never even heard anyone speak to my mom that way and my mom just like went with it and so when i was forced to like go over there we were gonna have dinner with him, she was trying to get my brother and sister to call him dad and she had only known him for a few months and i was like youre insane. i mean i have never talked back to my mom ive always been like afraid of her but i was, i was losing it, like just getting angry, getting like i dont know not acting like myself. um so when i was over there i noticed that when my mom said that it was that we were leaving, it took her a really long time to leave because he kept telling her that he didnt want her to leave or to have her go drop off us at the house and then come back and like it just, it just didnt really make any sense why he was so controlling over her. um then i started noticing marks like on her arms and they were bruises of fingerprint indents so being grabbed and i was like, i saw it once when she was like getting in or out of the shower or something and im like what is that and she ignored me obviously like shes not gonna answer to me. and i just, like thats just when i was just completely over this guy like i mean i didnt get along with my mom and then at times i told everyone that i just hated her but i didnt like anyone hurting her. uh, and she kept leaving and i remember on her birthday we made her a cake and were singing happy birthday in the middle of the song she answered her phone call to him because he called her like every fifteen to twenty minutes or texted her and if she didnt respond back within a timely manner he would end up showing up at the house or something asking her what her problem was, like i dont know like it was just really weird. and this only occurred for like three or four months but this was every day and i was i in high school, i was a senior and my teachers noticed my behavior a couple of times um like cause high school was let out later than elementary school for my brother and sister my mom wasnt home and i had a cell phone um my sister would call me and say moms not home and so i would ask my last period teacher if i could leave and he was actually really compliant like he kind of knew here and there that something was going on, we were a little bit closer like i was his student helper for one of my study halls. so um he would let me leave and i would just go get them. um that being said, he ended up speaking up to another teacher who decided that something wasnt right that i shouldnt have to leave school because my brother and sister are home alone and they were too young to be doing that. so um a child services worker came to my high school and i ended up spending like an hour talking to her answering her questions reluctantly inside this room inside my school. and then she told me she was gonna go talk to my brother and sister and i was like youre not gonna get anything out of my brother and sister theyre going to protect her because they dont know any better theyre younger like they dont know shes doing something wrong. um, but they were still able to tell her the behaviors of her boyfriend um and her being gone all the time. um so that day she talked to me and then she went to my brother and sisters school. my brother and sister got off the bus and uh talked to my mom about the social worker coming and then she got a call saying that she was gonna come to the house and talk to my mom and i mean basically when i got home my mom was really upset um, nothing really happened though because she just, i guess she just talked to my mom i dont really know what happened. she blamed it on one of her friends that called cps on her because they were in a fight so thats who she thinks it is still today i mean technically i didnt call but i mean i kind of feel like it was still my fault they came. i dont know, its hard. um then she met this other guy who shes married to now um he helped her out of this relationship basically um he was really nice to us at first the way he spoke was completely different um and she was trying to break it off with the other guy and he wasnt having it. um so he found out that she was seeing this other guy and um i went to school, my brother and sister were at school, my mom was at home and i guess he broke down the door and beat my mom. and i didnt know like he did it right after i left basically cause i used to walk to school cause i hated the bus, but um just thinking that like ok so he was obviously waiting for me to leave like i never did turn to look that way like what if i saw it or something. but um my mom didnt tell us that, i actually found out all of this information through my aunt because my mom doesnt talk about anything personal, i dont know anything personal from her voice basically. um i just know things from other people and family members, she doesnt let us know anything. um i did end up seeing marks on her like from that, he never touched her face so it wasnt like it was visible but she had uh like fist imprints on her chest and she had bruises all over her arms and when i saw it when i was standing outside and i was like really like i was just so mad and i was trying to talk to her and she completely brushed it off, didnt answer me, told me to go inside, told me not to worry about it. um, the guy that she was with she was only with him for two months and she decided that she was going to marry him. um, he ended up, the first day that we met him actually like when he came over it was actually on halloween and we all went trick-or-treating, um he installed like a passcode lock on the door after replacing it um so he couldnt come back and he ended up staying there and basically has never left to this day like he never went home. and i think he was really just staying there in the beginning because he didnt want that guy to come back because my mom never pressed charges because she didnt want him to retaliate because he would be someone who would find a way to retaliate against her and us. um, so, him being there he kind of just decided he was going to be in charge of everything and really i felt like i was in charge of the routine because my mom hadnt been there i had my brother and sister on a routine um and he is like from new jersey so he would get loud and have just like these weird sayings and didnt make any sense to us and my mom would be at work, she worked at a hospital nights um so like being there with him i ended up getting in fights with him all the time cause i was just so over it by then that i didnt care, but im not talking back to anybody anymore like i just spoke what i wanted to speak which resulted in me losing my phone, my mom like broke it in half and its really funny when i tell the story. this was over cinnamon rolls [laughs] like basically this guy, his name is [name], he was obsessed with the cinnamon roll thing and i had made him the same all week long for him and just trying to be nice and the day that this happened was two days before christmas and he watched me make them, told me i made them wrong, and asked me if i was like effing stupid and this and that and the other and i was like [sigh] are you kidding me like this is over cinnamon rolls, i made them for you the whole week. but i let it go and i just went upstairs and of course im texting my friend just like venting it out, like this guy is insane, i dont know what his problem is, um i dont know what he told my mom but like i walked calmly upstairs like i didnt throw a fit i was just like are you kidding me and just turned away basically, but when my mom got home she came upstairs, yelled at me for i dont even know she wasnt making any sense. she grabbed my phone, read through my texts, and was like oh is this how you want to talk about people when theyre here to provide for you and this and that and the other, which he didnt have a job so i dont really know what she was meaning by that. um, she broke my phone in half and then threw it in a fire outside. um like it was basically like fights before that just that kind of threw me off and i got dressed and snuck out of the house and ran to my aunts house in the middle of the night and my uncle already knew, my aunt and uncle already knew that i was obviously not getting along with the guy and that i like came to their door and it was 2 in the morning and so i guess which its like really weird, my mom never comes and checks on me so im guessing she wanted, like she was outside talking with him, so im guessing she wanted to come back and yell at me some more so when she knew i wasnt in my room she called my aunt cause she figured thats where i would go cause they lived in the neighborhood across the street so it wasnt that far it was about a mile, like just. um, i remember my uncle sticking up for me, uh which is her brother, uh and saying like you cant treat her this way anymore like he was yelling at her saying that i wasnt going home tonight and she was like on the phone saying im coming over to get her and he was like well shes not leaving with you like he was just yelling at her asking if she was effing stupid for picking a guy that shes known for like what, from october to december, like you didnt even listen to my side of the story and this is over food like its over a dessert [laughs] its ridiculous. um, but she wanted to go to ner jersey and see his family for christmas and i was told i had to go and i didnt want to go um i was forced to go so that was actually a really awkward car ride there, being there without a phone um i couldnt talk to anyone. um i had actually stopped kind of getting like christmas gifts really so i just kind of was there with them and i was just really, it just wasnt a coolum, we were supposed to drive back like on the 30th uh we ended up driving back on the [date] so my eighteenth birthday i spent it in a car driving back to indy. um, but she dropped me back off at my aunts because thats where i said i wanted to go and she was just basically let it go by then i guess she had cooled down. um they had a cookie cake for me so at 11:30 i was still able to make my wish cause it was very important to me [laughs]. um so yeah she ended up making lots of wedding plans after that and married him in june so she didnt know him for a year yet but married him in june, that was a really big wedding that took place in tennessee we all drove down there. i thought it was really stupid the whole time, i was in a bad mood the whole time, um and i mean [pauses] ok so i was at [school] for that fall uh i was kind of just like over it and i withdrew from [school] um my mom was furious with it obviously and she said a lot of hateful things to me so i left and went to my grandmas house who actually ended up moving to florida so she was in indy but then she ended up moving to florida around the time that my mom divorced my dad so um i was like
yeah my stepdad. um so i was living with my grandma kind of um i thought it would be cool because im like yeah i grew up with her like she took care of me and she has actually done a lot of bad things too like i guess i kind of know where my mom gets it from like this is my grandmas like fourth or fifth marriage that shes with um being there though, she actually enabled me to be sad um so it wasnt as cool. um i didnt do anything, i slept all day long, um on the days that i didnt sleep all day long we would go to the beach and it would just be me and her but i didnt get along with her husband obviously i didnt get along with him because he was really jealous and really weird about like me and my grandma holding hands like he was like you dont need to be all over her, like im not all over her like she just thought i was to clingy to her or something and so then that would cause them to fight and i just felt like ok well now im here at this house, im causing these people to fight um so i reached out to my biological dad again and he was all excited for me to come live with him so i did. so then i went from florida to california um and then i was there with him for like a month and a half. he is not the person i thought he was. it was, it was just really weird um [pause] yeah. i dont even know how to explain him hes like a pathological liar uh he got really mad that his uh it wasnt his girlfriend but it was like a girl he was dating, he didnt want to like, like since my mom actually, not my mom but like my sisters mom, cause theyre not together, um since them he hasnt had an actual relationship or a girlfriend and never been married or have any other kids. so um i was, i liked this girl and ironically this girl was one of my moms friends back in high school um and during this time i wasnt talking to my mom, she didnt call me, i didnt call her. like she knew what she knew because my aunt would talk to my grandma and then my aunt would tell my mom, so she knew. and then i also knew the mutual knowing because my aunt would talk to me and i would talk to my grandma still. um my mom ended up hating my grandma because she let me, she says she let me quit [school] to move with her so she hates her for that and still doesnt talk to her and doesnt send her a card or doesnt send her like talk, say happy birthday, nothing. doesnt talk to her at all. and i think thats really ridiculous too like my grandma lost a daughter and you are, i dont know. anyways um he got really jealous that i was um spending time with his like non-girlfriend like cause he worked all day long so i would be at the house and she would be like well hey can i take your daughter out to the mall or something and at first he was like yeah thats fine take her out, all she does is sleep [laughs] so i would go with her and we would have fun like when i wasnt with her like i actually had like kind of a metro phone that i got and i was able to pay with my grandmas help because it was only forty bucks a month so like i could basically find forty bucks somehow, i didnt have a job. but um so i would text her on this weird little phone, it was a lot different than my smart phone but um he turned super jealous over it and i was just like what is up with you guys being jealous over everything. he got just really mad saying that i didnt love him and that i wasnt there for him and that id never been there for him and i just vanished and no one ever told me where i was and [sighs] i was getting really overwhelmed and i ended up talking to my mom and on the phone she made it seem like everything had changed with her and that things were fine and good and she was going to be nice and she admitted that she was wrong, for me to come home, for me to go back to school, and things would be perfect so i was like alright im going back to indy, so i did. and since i was there um but then the next day it was back in the same routine that i had left from and i mean this time i wasnt able to escape to go to college and then come back on like weekends and stuff. i also didnt have my license or a car or anything like that like i just i wasnt allowed to do anything like i was responsible for everyone else and my mom didnt teach me how to drive and the couple times she let me drive she told me i sucked and quit so there wasnt any practice of that so i ended up making my aunt, and i say making because i was a pest [laughs], let me go out and drive with her so i could get my license and um i was applying to a lot of jobs cause i wanted to get a job and i wanted to like get out of my moms house, that was my only motive was i just didnt want to be there but im not going to florida and i cant go to california like i have no other option um and being away from all of my family in california like i couldnt live with any of those family members and plus i would just end up sleeping all the time again. so i got a job and the first job i got was at [location] and it was down the street from my moms house and um i dont know, its not really anything to like gloat about but i guess i was really good at it so i got promoted up to shift leader, associate manager, assistant manager within a year just quickly going up. um but i was able to save money to buy my own car um and i, with the help of my grandma and i still get help from my grandma sometimes um financially i guess, she helped me get into an apartment cause i was like ok well i dont have a car payment and im only paying like fifty bucks for the car insurance cause i dont have full coverage on it and i was able to afford a one bedroom apartment by myself. um, so i moved out and at first my mom thought that was stupid and then she asked if i was gonna go to school and i was like well yes so i came here and um i met these girls when i worked at [location], basically there was just a lot of drama um i really like dont know how to get into that its just, theyre just awful, theres still drama. um but i was, i ended up being really consumed by it and living on my own but i just like stopped caring about school again so i stopped going to class and i stopped doing anything and instead of like actually just withdrawing or trying to make it so i didnt flunk out of all my class i just didnt care so i failed all those classes because i stopped going, um so basically i got kicked out of [school]. um, when i was just still kind of caught up in not really doing anything i was really upset and really sad all the time, kind of lost, not really sure what i was supposed to be doing um. so then i had that whole spring off, um when i turned 21 though, no sorry, when i turned 20 um i wanted to get like a different car so i ended up using my tax money to buy a newer car like i saved a lot of money and i bought this newer car um so it was like march something and i had this car for 2 days and i didnt even have the plates on it or anything but that storm that came in from two years ago basically um that was just like out of nowhere it started snowing crazy um i was actually on my way to go take care of one of my friends dogs cause she was in florida, from [location], so with all that drama i was still trying to be nice um to go take care of her dog. so i was driving there on the highway um, i dont really know what happened but something hit my car and it ripped the steering wheel out of my hand, so i went circling on 465 and ping-ponged off the railings and i guess i didnt hit any other cars. my car was completely totaled, the-uh i lost consciousness but i guess i had called my mom and she told me when i was on the phone with her that i was saying i was fine because im not bleeding so i wasnt cut um but the firefighters who had gotten there had to pry open my door, every single side of my car was hit. there was yellow on my car and it was silver but there was no other cars so like i dont really know what had happened like all my tires were popped out and it was just bad, my car looked bad and so i ended up having, like i went to the hospital and i ended up having like a severe concussion and it was really ridiculous like i was trying to go to the bathroom and i was taking my shirt off instead and i was like putting soap on my toothbrush instead of toothpaste and then i would get really frustrated, im like why can i not figure out what im doing like i was just so mad and i was like by doctors orders not allowed to work. so, heres my apartment sitting there and i dont have money to pay for it but my lease was actually gonna be up that month anyways so i didnt resign it and i told them i couldnt resign it um and like with the way [location] and all fast food restaurants work you dont really get the benefits of it so like i didnt have time like sick time or anything like that even being a manager, it just sucked. so i couldnt afford the apartment anymore so im back at my moms house again um without a car and i dont know so i was just like how do i get to work, how do i go back to school if i wanted to um and same situation at my moms again. i, like my mom first promised that she would help me get another car and cosign for me and that didnt happen and i was frustrating everyone like my mom or her husband, um my aunt for rides to work, and i ended up just having to depend on them like it just made them mad like i dont understand like why you guys are even getting so mad. like so i walked to work which was not even that far, it was the same distance as walking to my school but like on nights where i closed i didnt like walking home um and like i was just getting really mad so i made a really stupid decision about going to go to [location] and got this overpriced car that they were able to give to me and of course it has to have full coverage on it because i dont own the car um being in the accident uh insurance wasnt really happy about that especially since its basically my fault. i mean we dont know what happened but what else can they say. um so full coverage for this like dodge 2002 neon right now is $220 um and then on top of that i didnt realize that this car was priced at $11,000 its ridiculous and i cant get out of the car i mean im contracted to it so i pay about $400 a month for this car and $220 in insurance and um my mom, who now works at [location] she ended up helping me get a job at [location] last year so that ended up helping like starting to help me pay for this car cause i got more there um and so i obviously quit [location] and then made a lot of people mad and cause like my gm there was really weird he had a really weird attachment to me and obviously would get mad if i didnt comply with him um so working [location] its a lot better i mean i get paid more but i wasnt able to like, i cant pay for anything else cause also i had gotten a credit card too and i maxed that out pretty fast so i pay on that. um i also pay on, or i just paid it off, but i was also paying on furniture that i bought for my um apartment so i created a lot of bills for myself and i have my own phone plan um like creating like so many bills that i have to pay for and not really making that much, i was like oh my goodness like basically all of the jobs i wanted to do i have to have a diploma or like be graduated from school so after fighting with [school] they let me come back this semester um with like of course all these terms and agreements. um but i was able to move in with a close friend, we got a house together in february, she pays for the majority of everything cause i cant pay for basically everything like i dont make enough like she pays for all the like side bills and i pay half the rent, thats it, and even then were really just like a team i guess. um so thats been better that past few months cause now im out of my moms house but i still cant pay anything andand thats where im at in life.
, my accident that set me back 
uh, i was just discouraged like everything i tried to do wasnt working um and then of course like i was in such a confused state of mind for like 3 weeks and i thought i was like never gonna get better so that wasnt helping. ive always had like i developed this anxiety thing in high school and my mom told me i needed to be on medicine for it and i was completely against it um dont want to depend on medicine and dont want to depend on anything, being stubborn, and i would get like anxiety attacks and stuff in school like i think i would break out in hives but no one else sees it but it itches so whatever but um like this accident just sucked like i had to give up my apartment lost my car um i was just really depressed again and then fighting with these other girls it was really sad
yeah my whole life. theres always something each year. i mean, everything. i dont know ive never really known how to deal with it. i like to write a lot and thats basically what i do when im upset 
what? im sorry
use i was put back into a place i was trying to get far away from, my moms house. 
[pauses] um, i dont know. like i couldnt really do anything else, like give up? like what am i supposed to do. um, actually truthfully in november so like 6 months ago um i got hospitalized for being stupid so i was in the psych for a good 3 or 4 days um and so that obviously has forced me to where i have to go to therapy and i have to take medicine or i go back 
nterviewr: can you imagine experiencing a situation that resulted in a similar state of mind or even worse this time around the accident? 
[inaudible]
what has stayed the same is all this financial stuff um whats different i guess is um it got me a better job um with the better job its able to help me finally move out of my moms house again um but it kind of sucks still cause i have to pay for this overpriced car every month and it irritates me
never really had friends so i dont know about a difference after or before the car accident because in high school i never really had time to have a lot of friends and like around the time of the accident so like i didnt really have any friends except for like people i worked with at [location]. like, i dont know, i stay by myself. i dont like to go anywhere and when i do cause i do have like 3-ish friends kind of, um that i do hang out with, um but obviously since were 21 and 22 they like to go out and its not really like the best thing i like to do i mean i act like it but its not 
[pause] um, just more discouraged i guess. i dont know. 
[pause] um, i guess it like really sucked because not having a lot of people in my life like there isnt a lot of support so theres not a lot help, theres not a lot of family members, so i wasnt able to like i mean i couldnt have a lot rides, i ended up making people mad because im being needy for a ride or something, it makes me feel bad that i cant do anything myself.  
ntrolled my judgment into making a decision to buy a car. [pause] i dont know if the like concussion had any like damage really, i dont know 
didnt. i didnt control it cause i stopped caring, so. not controlling it obviously made me want to like give up and it didnt work 
um, my sister is like [sighs] shes always been like a loud, crazy child and shes always been my moms favorite in a way um shes always like called like the prettier one, the smarter one, cause she still has straight as right now and obviously i flunked out of college but whatever. with her, she is really smart um but she gives me a lot of attitude and she i think shes the only one out of me, her, and my brother, who still sympathizes for their dad. um like she tries to talk to him still like and obviously we havent talked to him. um but she like never really cared what i was doing she was just awful like in childhood and stuff but like after my accident and then after being in the hospital uh she like wrote me this really long note telling me that shes sorry for being a bad sister to me and im just like [sighs] youre 12, youre fine. and now shes 13 going to be 14
[pause] um, they werent helpful. like i feel like they should have been more helpful than they were
dont know. i kind of just do like this day by day thing, trying to figure it out. 
no 
no
k um well i mean my parents were married for i dont know how long about 20ish years before um they separated in sixth grade and well my sixth grade year and they finally divorced in my eighth grade year. i really dont remember a lot um of my childhood um or like early years i should say i guess. um i started seeing a therapist when they separated um and we werent the best match me and her um so i found- or my parents found- a different therapist in ninth grade, my freshman year. um, how detailed do you want me to go like nitty-gritty details?
k um my moms side, well really both sides of my family they have a history of genetically um genetic mental disorders like depression, anxiety, stuff like that um it typically runs in the females um i have a younger brother so so far hes doing ok. but um i was diagnosed with depression and anxiety, i dont even remember when but kind of around eighth grade i guess. um, eighth grade is when i started cutting um and then i cut until my junior year of high school. i stopped until the spring of my senior year where i messed up twice um and then i stopped until, ironically yesterday was when i cut but that was the first time in a year and before then it was a year so i was doing pretty good. um i have, freshman year i hadnt been put on medication until the spring of freshman year because um i overdosed on tylenol and attempted to kill myself um and since then i have been to the hospital for treatment for more overdoses, the last one was in august actually a week before school started so that was fun. i mean, ive had many med changes but right now im only on one um and its actually managing everything really really well um cause well i have a nurse practitioner like she just hands me my meds and stuff like that. but i mean its the depression, it was mainly the depression through like sixth, seventh, eighth grade, through high school, but now its more anxiety um so its, i dont know, i mean my parents theyre really good but i mean it was really kind of the separation and the divorce that triggered it because the majority of people who do have the mental disorders like depression, anxiety in my family they got them later on in life when they were adults so i dont know if thats what set it off or if i was just a freak in the aspect that my mental disorder came earlier in life, i dont know. but i mean, i dont know, but now im a freshman in college so its not like, i mean i was here, i got a scholarship here so its like um i mean, ive been in, im jumping around a lot (laughs) i apologize. um ive been in academic honor classes since like ive been in, in my hometown we call it the ha program, or high academics, um ive been in that since like third grade, um at first grade i was reading at a third grade level because i just liked it (laughs) um but i mean like ive always been smart but i wasnt getting good grades in high school because of all the stuff i was going through so it was honestly really a miracle that like my senior year i got like a 4.0 gpa so i was proud of that and thats kind of what helped me um get the scholarship and stuff like that cause it kind of raised my overall gpa rather than what other years had done. so im here on a scholarship, the first semester was not too good um i was having a lot of difficulties with teachers and like fitting in with my roommate and fitting in with everyone, uh i mean, im here now and im doing ok so i mean, yeah (laughs).  that basically sums up the nineteen years of my life of what i can remember.	
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ection ii: illness narrative
yeah um, i mean as i explained in like the story about my life, its like i mean ive been dealing with that stuff. i mean my grandfather passed away in my, the fall of my senior year, um he was, and we didnt live close to each other, but whenever we visit he had a really big impact because um he was an alcoholic for a long long time and i got kind of my addictive personality from him cause i got addicted to cutting and stuff like that but he quit cold turkey, messed up once, and then never drank another drop for over fifty years.  so i, he was really impacting me because i know that i would be able to beat it. but um, so that was really hard on everyone in my family, he was my first grandparent to die so that was really tough. i mean i really get test anxiety and like im in the um, i forget what the program is, the als or something like that, its like you can take your test somewhere else um and i get extended time because i get really anxious over tests i mean, i dont know, its just two years i was put on a different med that helped me stop cutting and stuff like that and so (sigh) my life is just a big ball of ups and downs and rollercoaster rides so theres a lot of points in my life that are the question but its hard to pinpoint them all because they happen so frequently. 
well i can try for the next question, probably the most impacting one was my grandfathers death or my um suicide attempt before school started
um my mental state is not stable at all its very fluctuating its like i get very impulsive i dont think things through, i get in, when im in the heightened state of emotion im so far up there that im just blocking everything out. um, when i get really angry and stuff like that i dont remember talking or like yelling at my parents or whatever cause i just black out basically um so its not a good position to be in and ive been working to bring it down so i can manage it a lot better so my mental states just not good at this point (laughs)  
yeah i mean ive many different points, i mean the past years been ok, its not the worst but its not the best and it can only really get better so ive had a lot of worse points in the past 
um genetically prone to mental disorders and situations that just fell into place and kind of spiraled out of control i guess (laughs) so i mean yeah 
um years of years of therapy. um i mean talking with people is really kind of like my main thing is like i talk with people or i write down, i write a lot so its just like how i recuperate from those intense feelings is i kinda just take a break, chill, listen to music, and then i eventually go back and talk with people 
n imagine it and it scares the living crap out of me (laughs) cause i dont want to go there, i dont want that ever to happen and im scared of like that ever happening where i would i actually successfully kill myself and that is a scary, scary thought (laughs, sigh) yeah so, i dont like to imagine it because im here so why not just live for the moment 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ection iii: whats wrong vs. whats not wrong
um my grades, my school, my like attention to pay, or like to pay attention in school, my interactions with my peers, they all really suffered when i was going through those times or those periods of really heightened emotion or depression, stuff like that. like i just was not doing well in school and its hard (laughs) 
um during those periods of heightened emotion no one really wants to be around me so i isolate myself from everyone and that has really harmed a lot of my friendships and yeah i guess its kind of harmed the relationships with my family like my brother and i never had a good relationship because of all the things i was dealing with but now its like i kind of need a brother, i need my younger brother, so its hard to rebuild that bridge. um, ive lost a lot of friends because of the periods that ive gone through 
um when i was younger i was, or from what my parents told me, i was a lot more outgoing, i was a lot more like an extrovert, i was making friends easily, now im more subdued. i dont really go out and talk to people, i dont, im much more of an introvert now and i dont know if thats just natural like changes like through puberty, through growing up, but i think it does have something to do with the emotionality and the fact that ive lost so many friends, yeah (laughs)
um before like all this started and before like therapy and going into therapy like i, i dont even know how to describe it, like i now more think in a therapy logical way if that makes any sense. when im in like that period of emotion or even in just a normal day to day basis like im like if theres a small conflict with my roommate i try to go through it in a way that a therapist would because i have been in therapy for what like seven, eight years so its just, its changed my mind, im able to think more logically in a calm state of mind but im still working on being able to do that in the period of heightened emotions so i mean, i dont know if that answers the question (laughs) but yeah
the mental disorder, crisis, just everything like it controls you like completely like when i was cutting a lot i would always be like, it was almost similar to a drug addict i would expect, its like when can i next self-harm, its a bad habit but its like when can i next get my fix and stuff like that so it controlled my life like i was constantly spiraling out of control and its not a healthy place 
not good. um, now its a lot easier but back then it was, i couldnt control it, like not at all (sigh) thats never a good place to be 
um ive pushed many friends away, um my family theyve, back when i was more volatile and like dealing with a lot more of those emotions, they had expressed that they felt like they were walking on egg shells cause they dont know what could set me off, what could make me blow, what could make me do anything really um they were scared. um my relationships now are a lot more wary, i dont trust people and people dont really trust me so its like they have changed the dynamic of what i view as a healthy relationship and thats probably really not a good idea (laughs) 
um my parents they influenced it to try and get it better, to try and get me healthy again um i had friends at the time who were influencing it negatively um they were like calling me names, bullying me, and that happened kind of all through high school and i felt really isolated so people have, some people have helped my mental state get better or attempted to help it get better and some people have really made it worse, so theres just so many people who have affected it so its hard to name them all 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ection v: the future, hopefulness and satisfaction?
um i see myself graduating from college um i see myself like getting married, having kids, um  i really want to be an author, i can see myself writing a really good book and just stuff like that and but i dont, those are goals for the future that i look to in times of need but i dont really focus on them i focus on like here and now and like getting through the day, getting through the week and the month do theyre nice goals to look forward to completing but theyre not my main focus if that makes any sense (laughs)
um, i mean, how detailed? 
kay. 
kay. um, well, the first thing i remember would be probably when i was about five years old, maybe four. i lived, um, i am from northwest indiana, so we lived in, um, cedar lake, indiana. and, at that time, my parents were still married, and i lived there with my two brothers. they are both older. um, and then, lets see. we lived there probably until i was in second grade. we moved. my parents got divorced. we moved out into, um, crown point, which was probably about ten minutes away. and, i lived there probably for most of schooling. um, i moved into an apartment with my mom, and eventually she got a boyfriend, so i moved in with him in a house. and, that was probably about, um, fourth grade, third, fourth grade. and i lived with them until, lets think, um, probably about seventh grade. and then, they separated and moved into another apartment in crown point with my mom and my brother that is a little older than me. by that time, my oldest brother had moved out on his own. um, we lived there for, um, a few years, i believe until my freshman year in high school. and then, we moved in with my moms newest boyfriend and um, he lives in cedar lake. so, we moved into his house. just me, my mom, and him. because my bother moved out on his own. and then that was where i was before i started college. and so i finished high school in that house. and i moved out, um, and then lets see, i moved out to indianapolis on campus. and, um, lets see, i lived on campus the first semester of my freshman year. and then after that, i moved out into greenwood into my own apartment, and that is currently where i am living. and i am about to graduate in a couple weeks. and um, hopefully get a job from there. um, do you want me to talk about anything else? or
kay. you can just. 
thanks. 
um, the last two years, probably just, i injured my back. i had a herniated disk, and i just had surgery in march. so, that was a little bit stressful, and i am still getting over that. 
um, i mean, it was a little depressing because i cant do much for myself, so i had to rely on others, and um, it was a little frustrating as well. 
um, in the past, probably the only time would be when my father passed away in february, 2011. so that was probably the only time. 
um, with my injury, okay, um, probably, im used to doing things on my own, so the fact that i needed to rely on other people to do things when i was limited to what i could do would probably be what caused me the most distress. 
um, really, im not supposed to be doing anything, so i was basically just sitting around and relaxing and taking it easy. and that is how i pretty much get better. 
umyeah, probably. i guess another injury would do it or worse, losing someone else in my family or something like that. 
um, i guess, like physically, what changed, um, i guess i felt better after my surgery obviously. um, and then i was, i would say i was more limited to what i could do because before, well i guess i kinda was, because before i was doing things even though i was in pain. i shouldnt be doing them, but now, i am really not supposed to do them or else it will happen again. so, i was just kinda limited to what i can and cannot do. 
um, stayed the same, still going to class, um, i had to take a few weeks off because i wasnt supposed to be driving or walking around, but um, that is about it. 
um, changing, not really no.
um, before, my survey, i didnt really want to do anything or go anywhere because my back hurt all the time and that kind of thing, so, um, now i want to do more things and get out and not just sit around. 
um, i mean, for the most part, it stayed the same, but um, obviously im happier now that things are fixed, so. 
um i guess, um, i am not so depressed anymore because before i was limited to things i could do without being in pain. and now, i pretty much can do things, i just have to take it easy still. 
uh, obviously it limited to what i could and could not do. i couldnt work last semester i was planning, because i only do two days a week to school, so i was planning on getting a job, and i couldnt do that, so 
um, for the most part, pretty well. i was able to tell myself that eventually, that everything is going to get better. and xxxx. 
um, i am sure they were sick of me complaining, and um, i mean, they had to help me a lot more than usually, so 
um, i guess they kept me in a better mood than i would be if they werent there. 
um, well, i am graduating, so hopefully get my career started and eventually buy a house and that whole thing. 
um, nope. i think that is about it. 
ke what about it? just whats up?  
right, um lets see (pause)
um, we moved around a lot when i was little but one of my favorite houses was the first one cause there was a big tree in the background. lets see, we stayed there the longest then we started moving around a lot house to house, i think i went to a different elementary school every year, well almost every year. um, thats the main thing i remember of my childhood. it was fun, got a lot of kids, but yeah we moved around a lot. [mumbles] xxx its just a blank. 
ng around a lot uh thats about it, moving around a lot. 
hmm, (pause) that mom and dad were fighting a lot and its been going on a while moms just now doing something about it so lifes a little tough back at home. and lets see, weve been evicted twice. one the first time we didnt even know, they were really good at covering it up 
then the, yeah i know right! sneaky parents. then the second time they were like you have to get out by tonight so they couldnt, they had to tell us and we moved out in like eight hours, twelve hours, really fast, a lot of things broke. um then we, my mom and my sister stayed at my moms house and dad stayed at his moms house. they were separated and life was good. then mom decided to move back in with him and we all moved in a, we lived in a ranch thing over on like three acres. it had mold it in though and it was falling apart and we got kicked out again so we had to move and now were in a suburb and moving again and that is where im at (laughs)
hmm, soccer. played a lot of soccer and ffa was big when i was in high school so that was fun. yeah
yes (laughs). 
would, i swing. like some days i would be fine and then other days i woke up and was like this day is gonna suck. and then like little things would bother me. and yeah, i i snapped a lot. 
um just little things like i couldnt find pants to wear one day and i cried and im like why am i crying and my moms like youre just angry cause of what im saying im sorry
yeah, like before we knew everything i was just a kid i was playing outside and all that stuff. i feel like i grew up a lot faster once all that got uncovered. thats why theyre still trying to hide it from my little sistertrying, not doing well (laughs)
hmm. mom and dad fighting. it made like a knot in my stomach when i heard it, oh. so, yes. butterflies and nasty feelings
recuperate?
how so? like get over the knot in my stomach?
hmm
(pause)
yeah, im just thinking if i do cause i just kind of let it all soak in and bottle it up (laughs) 
h now thats what i do. i shouldnt but i do
just like, mom and dad will have one of their fighting sessions and, oh i guess i kind of, i take my sister to the other room. thats how i get out and thats how we deal. like well go on a walk or something 
borate (laughs)
just i cant stand people fighting i get the feeling, that stomach feeling, with anybody. yes
h its been its been worse cause theyre fine like moms fine like im done with you and the fightings kind of stopslowed, not stopped, slowed. or its more hidden (laughs) 
whats changed iswith me or with just anybody?
whats changed. i feel ive grown-up a lot but whats changed is moms still there for us, how about that one. cause i feel dads kind of drifted but moms still im here for you guys i love you guys she, yes, shes a lovely human 
wish i wouldnt have asked questions when i was younger cause i was like eight, ten, like mom whats up? cause theyve never been happy. and then i guess i was just worried about that instead of where im gonna play outside, whered my ball go, stuff like that. yeah, it puts a new spin on perspective 
with my family?
kind of grown apart from my family. i dont want to be home. like i chose to live here cause i just didnt want to deal with back there. ive stuck to doing my own thing like ill, high school i used to stay behind at the high school for so long because i just didnt want to go home 
tayed the same, umm. im still nosey, i still want to know more. i shouldnt ask but i always do, yes. but im better at handling the answers now because i expect them. well not so much expect im just oh ok. i understand.
till just take it all in 
y membersum not so much with family members. love all my family and i know they love me, even if they are loud 
yes. unless they start yelling then its like god shut up
no i used to just, i used to just like cower and be like yeah ok sorry, now yeah now ill snap back at them, yeah.
y friendships have gotten better. but i havent been able to have like romantic relationships because i just dont trust people like that. ill trust you with my life but you cant have my heart (laughs) 
definitely. cause not just my moms, but no ones relationships have really worked in my family. lot of divorce and im just like i dont want to deal with that. best friends but no boyfriends 
yeah. 
till upbeat, happy. just when im in a socialwhen im with my friends and stuff theyre like youre crazy fun youve got all this energy and its like yeah and then its so nice of them to try to, so nice like too nice 
ke, we play magic and i have a bunch of good cards and stuff and we trade and sometimes i just give them cards im like im not gonna use that and theyre like youre too nice [name] and im like, i cant help it (laughs)
put a cynical spin on things sometimes and i have to stop myself. like, i always think theres an ulterior motive. i try not to cause there generally isnt but its always there in the back of my head, like why did they do something nice like that, i bet its cause theyre just using me for something and then im like oh no these are my friends, were good 
yes. well any time something out of the ordinary happens, yeah. 
use thats what, its just, its like that at my house. like, theres all this subliminal messaging with my mom and dad so im like hmm is that happening in my life too? no, no no. my friends and i dont hate each other. (laughs)
hmm, let me think (pause). well its changed me for the boyfriend thing cause i dont, i dont know if im gonna get over that one. trusting people, thats a hard one. and, it really helps, it helps me read people. like i wont associate with people, well like i read peoples actions not their words now cause my dad speaks beautiful words but he is horrible with his actions, hes a liar. so now its just if, i wont associate with people if theyre like ill be there ill be there in ten minutes like you can, it happens, i understand, it can happen like once maybe twice, but that third time im like you dont want to hang out with me, i wont hang out with you either
yes
hmm (pause). im more protecting of my sisters, like if i hear mom and dad start up i used to not take them out of the room like you can leave if you want cause i was nosey and like i want to stay, but now im just like [name] shes like thirteen, she doesnt need to hear this so well go outside and im just like these are my sisters you cant harm their ears
yeah (laughs) 
ke to think i keep a cool mind. but then sometimes just when im, i feel like ill have mood swings. like theyre, theres just that day where its like this day is gonna stink
hmm, i dont know theyre just, sometimes they just happen like ill be, ill have a fine day and then nothing really ill just be like im done with humans. i want to go be alone. and then ill just be unexplainably mad or ill be unexplainably sad but then i always get back to center. 
think so. 
use it generally happens like after ill get a call from dad or something. ill be either mad or happy, depending on whats up. like i got a sad swing the other week cause he promised me he would come down and help me fix my car and he just never showed up 
was just like, ah dad, i was hoping he would show up 
generally hide the bad parts really well, they just they only see me as happy and peppy. its like, donttheyll occasionally, it slipped out once or twice with like my best friend, shes seen me in these states and shes just like are you ok? and then we just, we just hang out. she understand, shes there for me cause she has similar, she has similar problems so she understands so were good 
yes. she has saved my butt a few times
no cause i hide it well (laughs)
h, true. they, they know me (laughs). um, no i hide it, cause ill be like torn apart inside but ill stay fine on the outside. i, yeah i hide it well (laughs)
used to go a lot off of my parents emotions, like they were happy i was happy, they were arguing i was scared, they were fighting i was scared. they were, or theyd be like mom would be sad, i would be sad cause im just like, i just kind of went off her feelings. moms feelings, not dads feelings. yeah, i was a feeling chameleon (laughs)
yeah i think i kind of, i dont live there anymore so i kind of make my own feelings and im generally happy here cause its fun here 
t just, i dont, no ones arguing here so theyre just, naturally. or im good at putting them with the happy feeling. i think its just been happy feelings for real though 
do what?
hmm. im debating between staying here and being a nurse of switching over to [location] and going for agriculture cause theres no agriculture classes here
but yeah, i want to finish school, start a job, then move out of state. mainly because [location] is so weird with the weather, i am tired of this (laughs) 
h my goodness, i wore a tank top and then the next day i had to wear a coat
want to own some land cause we lived on that three acres for a while and i had chickens and i want to do that again. that was so fun 
thats it for now. just, i want to graduate, want to get a good job 
hmm. (pause). just, my family is crazy (laughs) and they can be called crazy because moms side is mentally crazy, they have all the mental diseases over there and then dad has all the body diseases   
ts see, dads side has alzheimers, moms side has schizophrenia, depression, bipolar, almost anything. my great-great granddad died in an insane asylum. theres i think any mental disease, like almost, a whole lot of people in my family are on medicine for their mental stuff. i could be on add medicine but mom says she doesnt want me taking medicine cause im gonna have to deal with this my whole life, so. 


well i was born here in xxx (city name) and ive grown up mainly in the same house for about 20 years now.   i was homeschooled my whole life, like through when i was younger and through high school as well, and i have an older brother as well.  my familys always been around and i started going to xxx (community college name) a couple years ago then i transferred to xxx (college name).  thats kind of the story of my life *laughs* you wanted lots of details though?
well thats about it.
ection ii
yeah probably a little over a year ago my aunt died in a bus crash so that was hard on me and the family.
my mental state as in how i deal with the emotions?
i think i was pretty much fine, just a little more mellow.  i dont really share my emotions a ton so it was mainly just trying to be there for my family and my dad.  i think it was pretty much the same but i wasnt quite as happy every day as much.
i dont believe so.
just the death in the family and just the immediate loss that we felt.
time.  time, talking somewhat with family members and getting out those emotions.
yeah.  yeah uh like can you read it again?
i could.  i think just because you feel those emotions and even though it was a close family member it wasnt like my parents and so just trying to imagine what that would be like i could imagine thatd be so much harder.
ection iii: change
i would say school and work has definitely stayed the same.  maybe ive worked just a little harder, especially right after it to keep my mind off of it but i think pretty much stayed the same besides being more careful while driving.
well the samewell whats been different everythings been pretty much the same except my family because of it weve gotten closer.  i think yeah thats been different and then also with friends like social situations, depending on who it is, either shy away from it a little more or not want to go to as many somewhat especially if they talked about what happened a lot or it was mentioned a lot, didnt really want to hang out with them as much but its changed a little since then with hanging out.
i think most things have stayed the same.  the only thing that i would probably say is different is just a little more compassionate and a little more understanding to situations people go through with more grace.
what about the way you think and feel (emotions)?  whats stayed the same?  whats different?
the thing thats probably been different is as i said grace would be something i have more of now just because im less likely to judge people just because i know hard things that they can go through and there might be a reason for the things they do.
ection v: degree of influence 
to what extent and in what ways did that hardship control your life?
i dont really think it controlled my life other than changing what i did on a daily basis, whether it was taking care of my cousin some or besides just changing my schedule around a little i dont think it controlled my life.

to what extent and how well were you able to control your mental state during that time of crisis?
i think just fine pretty much.  it wasnt super bad.
as i said, i dont really let a whole lot of emotions show so mainly my mental state like just i was pretty calm during it and so helping out my family i think that was helpful for them to be there and stay calm.
if people were very distressed about it, obviously that would make me more distressed and a little more worried about future stuff that could happen, stuff like that.
i dont know *laughs* just hopefully a job i love and am passionate about and am able to work hard at and maybe a family, well see.
dont think so. 
there any specific things you want me to mention? like?
kay, well i was born here in [city], and i grew up mainly in the same house for about 20 years now. i was homeschooled, uh, my whole, uh, life, like, through, when i was younger and through high school as well. and i have an older brother too. my family has always been around, um, and now i started going to [university], um, a couple years ago. im going to transfer to [university], um, thats kind of the story of life my life. you wanted lots of details though?
um, i dont know, thats, uh, about it.
yeah, probably a little over a year ago my aunt died in a bus crash.
t was hard on me and the family
um, my mental state, as in like, how i deal with the emotions, or?
um, i think it was pretty much fine, just a little more mellow. um, i dont really share my emotions at times, so i was mainly just trying to be there for my family and my dad, and them. i think it was pretty much the same just a little, you know, not quite as happy every day, you know, quite as much. 
um, i dont believe so.
um, just the death in the family, and just the loss, the immediate loss that we felt.
time, uh, talking with someone, with family members and getting out those emotions. 
yeah, uh. um, uh, can you read it again?
uld, i think just because you feel those emotions and even though it was a close family member, it wasnt, like, my parents, and so just trying to imagine what that would be like, i could imagine that would be so much harder. 
um, i would say school and work has definitely stayed the same, maybe i worked a little harder, just, especially right afterward, to keep my mind off of it. um, and i think pretty much stayed the same, just maybe be more careful while driving.
kay, um, well the same. well lets see its been different. everything has pretty much been the same except my family. weve gotten closer. i think, um, yeah its been different. and then also, you said and family situations, relationships? with friends, like social situations, depending on who it is, either shy away from it a little more. um, now when i go to as many, somewhat, especially if they talked about what happened a lot or was mentioned a lot, just wouldnt want to hang out with them that much, but, its xxxx ever since then though, i hang out with them more. 
um, i think most things have stayed the same. the only that is probably different is a little more compassionate and a little more understanding to situations people go through when were in grace.  
um, i think thats probably been different is as i said, grace would be something i have more of now because im less likely to judge people because i know, um, hard things they can go through, and that there may be a reason for the things they do. 
um, i dont really think it controlled my life other than changing, you know, what i did on a daily basis, whether it was helping take care of my cousin some, or besides just changing my schedule around a little. i dont think it controlled my life.
think just fine, pretty much. it wasnt super bad, but you know.
um, well, as i said, i dont really let out a whole lot of emotions and so mainly my mental state, like, just i was pretty calm during it. so helping out my family, i think it was helpful for them to be there, calm.
um, if people were very distressed about it, obviously that would make me more distressed, and a little more worried about future things that could happen. stuff like that.
n general? um, uh, i dont know. just hopefully, a job i love and am passionate about, be able to work hard at. maybe a family. well see. 
try. okay, um. one of the first things i can remember, like a big part of my life, was when my parents got divorced. at the time, we were living in avon, and i was in kindergarten. um, i just remember the night that my dad called my mom saying he wanted a divorce. it was raining and storming, and my mom was in her bedroom, my little brother was asleep in his room. he is four years younger. um, so i went into my moms room, and she is like sitting on the floor crying, and i got on the phone with my dad, and i was like, dad what is wrong with mom. what did you do to mom, basically. he is like we are just going through some times, and we are going to be moving apart. so, i got really upset too, and then i watched my mom throw all of his things out of the house, and it was raining, so they were all up on the balcony. then, after that, um, my dad moved into an apartment with one of his friends, and i didnt get to go see him as often because like they were doing the custody thing, i guess. and my mom was living with my grandparents, and with my grandparents there was my grandma, my grandpa, my cousin [name], me, my mom, my brother, and then my aunt [name], who was [name] mom would also be there from time to time, but she also lived with my uncle [name]. so, when i was living there, i spent a lot of time with my uncle [name] and my aunt [name]. um, she would alwayswe did lots of crafts together. she would take me driving and go get me cokes from mcdonalds or buy me all the cool toys from there. um, and then when [name] would go and stay with uncle [name] and aunt [name], i would usually go with him as well, so we would build forts, like throughout the whole house. that is a big thing i remember growing up is making the whole house into an entire fort. eating huge bowls of like cereal, and i dont know where my brother was during this time. i have no idea where he was, probably at my grandparents. um, so then once i got into elementary school, and my dad got a house in speedway, they, my parents still werent on really good talking terms, so they sent letters, um, or whatever they needed to get to the person through me mainly, and so like if i forgot to give it to them, you know im like, you know, seven or eight or nine, like really young. so, if i would forget to give them something, i would get in trouble for it. and, i remember them just arguing all the time even when like if i would forget it would be my fault but then they would argue at each other over the phone. i just remember their being a lot of hostility when i was growing up. um, and then, my mom eventually moved out of my grandmas, um, like a think a year or two later maybe, um. and she actually moved into the house right next door to my grandparents, so i was still always around them and still had pretty much the same environment with my mom and my grandparents and my aunt and uncle and cousin. um, i had a few friends um, that i got one of them i got when i first moved in with my grandparents so i was like in first grade. and he and i were really good friends all the way until, i think he moved away in middle school, we were really good friends. i had another friend names [name] i was really close with. i am still close with her, actually. and, i had another group of friends that i got in third grade, and i kept them all the way through, through elementary school into middle school. um, when i was in elementary school, i got moved to the horizons program, which was like the accelerated program they have for wayne township in the elementary schools. and, i remember i was really upset because i didnt want to go there because i didnt know anyone and none of my friends were in that program. so, i was moved there in like october of fifth grade, and i hated it. i hated everyone. i hated everything. i didnt talk to anyone unless i had to. i had known like two or three people that were in there, but i still didnt want to go to that. and then i still had my other friends who werent in it. um, and then, we went into middle school. middle school was an interesting time in my life. awkward. um, middle school was just like people, just all of us being awkward people. there wasnt really anything prevalent. i dont think that happened in middle school. my parents were still divorced, um, oh my mom remarried. i forgot about that one. my mom remarried when i was in fourth grade. and i liked my step-dad and my step-siblings. i had two of them, so we moved into a bigger house. um, it was huge, it was like six bedrooms, three stories, built in pool, um, so i guess by the time seventh grade came around, my mom was like really overstepping her boundaries. so that more of what was going on home stuff, not really anything related to school wise or my friends. it was just at home. i think my friends nicknamed my house like the hell house because there was always fighting going on. my mom was really overstepping her boundaries with my step-siblings because they hadnt really had a mom. she wasnt really involved in their live, so you know, there was literally fighting all the time in that house. i would just go upstairs to my room and shut my door when i was home in middle school, and, i would always try to be at a friends house. um, and on the weekends, i would have my friends over to my house, but we would usually just go get dropped off at metropolis, i think, because that was like a thing back in middle school. um, and then, lets see, when i went into ninth grade, the group of friends i had like feel apart. i lost pretty much all of them all at once. one of them moved to plainfield. one of them i just kinda lost contact with her, [name], the one i am still close with now, we just kinda had a falling out. um, and then my other friends, [name] and [name], [name] started getting really involved in the volleyball team, um, up in davis, so she was real busy. and then my friend [name] got involved in band, and she was really busy. and so, i didnt have anyone. that was like a year where i was just, i dont think i really had any good friends that year. i had, i kinda had a boyfriend. his name was [name] that i was like kinda off and on with, but that was like the only person, other than like my aunt [name] who was stable in my life. because she was living with my grandparents when i was a freshman, and i had always talked to her about like what was going on with my mom and my dad and their problems that we had. so, she encouraged me to go to counseling, and i think that year was the first time that i went and talked to someone about like whatever i was going through, like depression. i know she was trying to refer me to go see a psychiatrist, so i could get on some medication. but my parents were really against that. my dad is a chiropractor so he is pretty much against all kinds of medicine. he believes in like you know, natural healing and whatever else they believe in. um, my mom, she is really superficial. she believes like, you know, if i do something then it directly reflects her. makes her look bad, and she cant have her self looking bad. so that is, that is how it actually still is. it still is like that. um, and then, so i did go to counseling. i never went to go see a psychiatrist of any kind. and at the end of 9th grade, i only saw my counselor i think once or twice over that summer, and then i went into the actual high school. once i got into the high school, i tried out for a play, got in the play, and got involved with the theater department there. so, pretty much, um, just saw, i was only in high school for two years. i graduated early. so, i was just there for my sophomore and junior year. um, my sophomore year of high school, i got a different boyfriend. his name was [name]. he and i were really serious. we ended up getting engaged but calling it off, um, after i graduated. um, but that was pretty much everything i did in high school, was just theater. i stayed at the theater until like they kicked us out because i didnt want to go home because i still had the mom and dad were still. 
didnt really get a long with them. therere really hostile. um, i know in like my sophomore year, um, the end of my sophomore year, my dad threw me when we were on the stairs. he threw me down the stairs, and i like hit a cement wall and like ran out of the house and like ran down to the police station, found a cop, and told what happened. and they like, they got them, i got them to call my mom, but they were like, oh, youre fine. you dont need to leave. like youre just being over dramatic. i dont think they believed me when i told them what happened. um, and so, like at the time, i was still dealing with like the depression and, but i just didnt really talk to anybody about it. 
use i didnt feel like there was anyone i could talk to other than my aunt, and she is the only person i have every told like everything to, um, so then, what happened. i was still with [name] my senior year. um, graduated fine. um, when i, that summer after i graduated, my open house, the day after my open house, my aunt was hospitalized, my aunt [name].
he had lupus and so like i knew like she wouldnt be around forever, um, and i know they had told me like she was supposed to pass away earlier in life and just hadnt and um, she was a really big drug user and alcoholic, um, so she struggled with that her whole life since being diagnosed at 12. but even knowing all of that, it still didnt make it easier to see her in the hospital on a ventilator. she was off and on that all summer, um, and i ended up, um, in the spring, i decided to stay in state just because she had kinda started to have some problems and so did my grandparents. so, i stayed at purdue, and then when i left for purdue in the fall, i decided to rush a sorority because i went, um when i went to school, like nobody that i knew came to purdue. and like my friends were still in high school, so i rushed a sorority. but every weekend, i came home. 
ry single weekend i came home. and i never, so i never really got to know any of them. um, i didnt talk to very many people. i talked to my roommate. um, she and i were really good friends. and then a guy that i went to high school with that i hadnt really known. i met him over that summer. um, at one of my friends parties. so we knew we were both going to purdue, and then we started talking or whatever. um, yeah, that was pretty much all i did. i didnt talk to anyone. i went to class. went home on the weekend and saw my aunt in the hospital or at home. wherever she was because she was on and off a ventilator. and then in november, the first weekend of november, or second weekend, must have been the second weekend, my step dad drove to purdue to get me. he just called me and he said, im coming to get you. so, i knew, i just knew something was going to happen because two days previous, they told me my aunt went back in the hospital. so, when he drove up there to get me, like i knew that this was it, something had happened, um, so he took me straight to the hospital. and, they told me that they were going to take her off the ventilator. 
nd, so, i mean like, i was crying. my family was there. my brother never was there. um, i dont think he ever came to the hospital because he didnt want to see her like that. but, um, me, my uncle [name], my aunt [name] all stayed at the hospital until she passed away. um, and the guy [name], um, he ended up coming home that weekend, and he sat with me at the hospital. he never went in to see my aunt, um. he was the one that i met over the summer.
but he never went in to see my aunt. he just sat with me in the waiting room. 
ke any time i was in the waiting room, he would just be there. and he stayed there all weekend with me too. um, so she passed away, and i was in the room. me, my aunt, and my uncle were all in the room when she passed away. um, that was really hard, watching her struggle for like two days. i dont think she passed, she didnt pass away until like sunday morning. 
um, and you could see like just um the stuff that was filling her lungs just come up, um, out of her mouth and out of her nose. and that was just, that was really hard. um, actually, the guy i was dating, [name], we had, um, broken up at the time, but he still drove. he drove back because he knew, and he missed her by like five minutes. 
um, so then, after she passed away, i pretty much just fell apart. pretty much had, i had no idea what to do. i felt like i didnt have anyone, so in february of that year, um, i was going out with my sorority, because i ended up staying with that and joining that. i was out with my sorority, and i had a bunch of pills in my purse. and [name] saw the pills and was like, what the fuck do you think youre doing? 
nd i told him what i was going to do. and so he stayed with me that night. wouldnt let me go out. and the next day, i went to see my psychologist that i had just started seeing at purdue. 
told her what was going on and ended up going to the stress center at st. vincent. 
was in the stress center for a week there. um, i think that was the first time my parents were actually like receptive to the fact that i actually had a problem and wasnt doing things for attention. like they had always said. um, because i actually ended up getting on medication when i was in the psych, like the stress center. 
um, and so i was paying for that afterwards by myself because they were just, they didnt like that i was on it. they just thought that it was for attention. um, and then when i came home that summer. um, they, it just, it was the same. i was still taking medication but there was nothing really different with how my parents were. they were still unreceptive to anything i was trying to tell them. and i know i was still having problems. 
o, in august, i went back into the stress center again before going back to school and moving into the sorority house. um, so that fall, in the sorority house, it was really rough because i didnt know them very well. even when like after my aunt passed, i just pretty much shut down. so, i wasnt going out of my room. i wasnt going to class, like it was a struggle to shower. 
ke, [name] and my roommate were literally picking me up and getting me and making me go eat, making me go shower, making me go do things, so i wasnt sure how the sorority was going to be. i ended up just, i was taking 19 credit hours that semester, so i was involved in the theater there, um, in that theater department, so i was there until like eleven oclock at night, and then after that, i would go out. so basically, that whole semester, i was going to class and getting, going to theater, and getting drunk. 
nd then, that just kept getting worse. my drinking, i, uh, really think i was an alcoholic. i had a huge problem. i would skip class to drink. all winter break, after that semester, i was drinking all the time, like with my friends. um, my friends xxxx that i knew, so we were smoking, smoking and drinking a lot. and then when the spring happened, um, god everything just got out of control. my drinking and smoking was i dont, i would go days without eating because i was just drinking. 
um, and then, when spring break happened, um, like everything that had been going on just kinda came to a big head, because i, uh, tried to commit suicide. 
nd, um, i had like, i took hundreds of pills. i took a muscle relaxer, and i was, i drank. i tried to get on of my friends who i had known since first grade to come over because i wasnt feeling great, and i knew like something was going to happen. and he said he wouldnt, so i just in this like, i really like feel like it was a total trance, like i drove to the store, got the pills, and came back and like unscrewed them all, and i had it all sitting out really nicely. i just had everything, and i dont remember telling him what i had done. but i had a text message on my phone that i was like, i had taken over 300 pills and blah, blah, blah, and i have little flashes of after i took the pills, i remember like i went and hid the weed i had and locked all the doors and windows in the house, and then i dont remember anything. 
until like four days later. 
o, four days after that, i woke up in the psych unit at wishard. 
um, i have videos on my phone and pictures of like people that came to see me in the hospital, but i dont, i dont remember any of that. i know they told me that i probably shouldnt have lived. i shouldnt have recovered as well as i did. because i have like no repercussions from doing that. and they were like, i dont know how that happened. so, i was in the psych unit for i think like nine days it ended up being, um, and then once i got out, i stayed home for another week before i went back to school to finish the semester. 
nd i had dropped down to just two classes. when i went back, i told everyone in the sorority what happened. because i had been gone for like two weeks. 
o i had to go back and told them. i knew that there were rumors flying because people in the house had to know, like the president had to know, and i know that she told people. i  just wanted to put everyone straight, like this is what happened this is what i did, this is where i have been. um, but when i got back there, i was still drinking a lot, so i had like, you know, almost two weeks of nothing, and as soon as i got back there, i just went back to drinking. and then, that summer, i ended up living with my friend [name]. and, we were drinking and smoking all the time because that was just the group of friends that i had from high school. the people i was still with, um, and then, i started to talking to, um, [name]. and i had met [name] like, five years previously. and we kinda kept in contact, but um, i ended up moving out of [name]s and into my dads because he was working for a race car team, so he was never home. and if he was, it was only for a few days at a time. so, the second half of summer, i was living there, and [name] and i started dating. and he, helped me stop drinking. after, i think, from my 20th birthday, i had a huge birthday party, got trashed, and then never drank. um, he, he went to ball state, and i was going back to purdue to live with my friend [name], who is in the kinda toxic group that i didnt want to be a part of anymore. 
nd once i got back to purdue, i was crying all the time because i would come home and um, to our apartment, and there would be alcohol out and there would behe would be smoking, and i could smell it. i was just getting so upset that i um, talked to [name]. he and i were dating, so i was talking to [name] about it, and i ended up just withdrawing from purdue. didnt really tell my parents until after the fact. i didnt tell anyone until after the fact. i just did it. and then i went with him to ball state because i was going to transfer there, and i ended up getting pregnant, 
nd i didnt find out. i found out in september, like the very end of september. um, i had no idea. they had told me like that i had just had cysts or whatever, so i got pregnant. [name] um decided to come home at the end of the fall semester and we moved in together in january, um, and he finished his associates degree like in the spring. i ended up doing, i pretty much did his class for him. um, so, that was really stressful. the whole pregnancy with my, my mom and dad didnt want me to have the baby, um, i, uh, didnt really have, i feel like i didnt really have a lot of support with what i chose to do, um, but then, so i still had [name]. [name] was there, he came back was great. um, in march, was it march i dont remember, sometime in the spring, somewhere around march, my family and i got into it really bad, and i stopped talking to them for a little bit with my dad. it was my dad, i didnt, that is right, i didnt start talking to him again until march. i hadnt talked to him until i told him i was pregnant. 
he was just so upset. um so, then i had [name] in may and [name] had decided like two weeks before she was due that he didnt want to be a dad, and he didnt want to be in my life, so i had her, and he wasnt there. and then, he came to the hospital to sign the paternity papers, and um, ended up wanting to see her, and since then, he has been fine. we like mended everything. we ended up getting married, and then we moved out of our apartment. and he is with his parents right now, and i am with my mom right now because he got in trouble with the law. so, now, he is like, he is working, and i am with her. and we are trying to get an apartment in the fall, and he is trying to go back to school. so the end. 
nt think of anything. 
yeah. 
n i think it was just the sequence of i tried to commit suicide, um, and then i stopped drinking and immediately got pregnant. like when my life was starting to get back on track, like i was sober and stopped doing anything and immediately got pregnant. so, i never had like a lull in time where i had, i had, i guess a break from what was just everything that i had going on. 
ke i had the suicide and i had the depression. i started to come out of that, i got pregnant. 
was completely unstable. i, uh, had no idea how. i know. i was drinking all the time because i didnt want to deal with my life. i think i ended up trying to commit suicide because i had not drank in like six days. 
nd i was so distraught with the way my life so, that i was relying on alcohol and the drugs and then i dont know when i started hanging out with [name], he was so, he was nothing, none of my friends knew him. my cousin was like the only one who knew him, and she was like straight edge. so, like, that was like pretty much a saving grace that he was sober. he didnt do drugs really. he didnt drink ever. so, that helped give me some stability and like believe that like i can get better. i can do this. like, so he was there everyday like making sure i was okay.  
um, yeah, i dont, i dont really know. i feel like everything was just building up. like i cant say that there was one event that was more or less stressful per say because it all kept building, and that is what got me to the point of suicide. nothing really, nothing happened to make me do that, it just got to me so much when i was sober that i realized like, why, why, i guess. 
think it has just been, just the way my family is. i dont know like, when my friends or like people i have dated come and meet my family, they always say something like, your family is really weird. like, just um, my family, okay, my family is really open with drinking. they drink like all the time at family events. um, most of them are really superficial or they are very judgmental, so i feel like just the way my family has the things that they have said just throughout my life has gave me all these issues. um, and that people pick up on really well, and i thought was normal growing up. so when i would go see my other friends, like go to my friends house and like see how they talk with their parents, like that was weird to me, like you are so nice to each other. you talk civilly to each other. you dont really yell, like you have legitimate conversations about life. it is not just surface level. 
o, i guess i dont know 
um, i dont know. how did i do that? um, well, [name] really helped. and once i got pregnant, like i had to stay sober. i couldnt do anything because of the pregnancy. so, i think that really saved my live in a way, like having my daughter generally saved my life. because if i hadnt gotten pregnant, do i know if i would have stayed with [name]? and like, we would have gotten through all that? do i know if i would have stopped drinking? like i have no idea, and i know that because of her, i dont drink and i dont smoke anymore, um, so i think really the pregnancy is really what saved me and like got me back to the point of stability. 
um, like, the only thing that like right now is if i lost my daughter. if something, and i lost my daughter, i know i would be done. 
nd like, there is no point. 
ke i was like trying to figure out like why did i live? i dont know. i always try to find the meaning and like how did i recover? 
o, i always had theories like oh, my aunt, everything that was good about her, somehow in me, and she is the one that made me, something in her spirit made me text my friend, and then i got pregnant. it is like, so all these things are what made me still be here, and if i didnt have my daughter, i would be done. 
well, big difference is like being here at iupui as opposed to there, like, i was in a sorority at purdue, i had easy access to social functions and people who could hook me up with weed or alcohol. here, i dont have that. and there is not a theater department here. so, i come here, and i go to class. and i actually have to. i actually do go to class here because i have my classes set up to where, um, im here, like straight through going to classes once i come to campus, which really helped, which i didnt have there. and, it is just a complete lifestyle difference i think is like the big difference that makes my work ethic different. and my, my mental state different. just being out of that toxic environment. 
um no, because like, it is completely different. here i do my work. here i, uh, mean other than my daughter like she is the only thing that keeps me from getting things done. but that is not a bad thing. um, but there, i just wouldnt do my work just because. 
ocially, i have stable relationships. like, the friends i had there were just like, i guess i will say it like, basically like people i paid to be my friends, um, i keep in contact with a couple of them but it is nothing real, and um, here i have like stable friends. i have, um, my friend [name] who goes to uindy, my friend [name] who goes to iupui, um, and she was there for like my whole pregnancy is when i really became friends with her. um, and then i have [name], and i didnt really have a real like stable like romantic relationship there. it was just like whoever was available when i felt like have the relations, so 
um, i mean.. i dont really see anything as the same. like, because im, i know i am in a completely different state of mind, mind, and the people i am with are different, my work ethic is different, like my goals are different. everything i think. everything has changed for me. 
um my personality, ooohh, that is a good one. um, im more level headed. i think things through now because i have a daughter, and i have different goals, and as opposed to then, i would just be sporadic or do something off on a whim. like, i wanna go get drunk, lets go get drunk. you wanna go to qdoba, lets go to qdoba. you dont want to go to class. alright, no class for us. like, just things, that i didnt think about. and here, i have to think about everything i do. um, and socially, i come to campus, i go home. i see my friends that i am actually friends with instead of just seeing people because i feel like being around people. 
um, emotionally, i have become more stable and like, accepting of the fact that like, i am not on mediation for anything, and i havent been, and im like understanding my emotions they are okay. you can have down days and you will have better days. whereas, um, there it was just like, im down. im down all the time. im happy. why am i happy? because i have alcohol. like, it was just like up there, i felt like i was just down all the time, and i just was drinking so that i wouldnt think about things. whereas here, i get to think about things. i get to understand what is going on. i get to be more, more of a deep thinker, i guess, when it just come to myself. 
t was everything. um, leading up to that point, um, like, just the alcohol, and the people i kept company with, that was my life. that was everything. there was. i have theater because that was my major there. so, i still kept up with that. but other than that like i just had such a very toxic. i created. i created a really toxic environment for myself. like there are people who go to school and dont do what i did. um, but i guess just my depression and like, i just, my need, like, i just got so addicted, to um, the partying, and the alcohol, and the drugs like i didnt know what else to do. because i didnt have any, anyone close to me showing me like the different. and like, my parents and my friends who dont go to purdue, they had no idea. they honestly had no clue what was going on. 
dont think i could control it at all i honestly dont and like, it is hard, it is really hard for me to say how much control i had over because like i was always drunk. like, i would day drink. i had alcohol with me at all times. so, i know i was never in a good like sober state or mind for months. so, i, it is just hard. it is hard to answer that. 
um, well, when i was there, um, i dont know, i dont think, like people in my sorority, they didnt really see it as abnormal because we were in a sorority, and i  mean, i was going out more than them, but i was still doing theater, and i would still be gone during the day. whether i was in class or sleeping or something. like, so they didnt really see it as something abnormal, and i didnt have um, a lot of close friends in the sorority. most of them were outside of it, so they didnt know um. but once i told them, and i had come back and had told them what happened, i noticed a lot of people talked to me differently. like they were more careful with what they were saying. and more careful with their words or just, um, went out of their way to just ask how are you today? as opposed to like, they wouldnt have previously. 
um i mean, i mean, i lets say, well because of the lifestyle i was in, the people i was surrounded with um, if they texted me, or like hey, lets go get drunk, i would be like okay, because i had a need for the alcohol. so, i dont know if it was really so much them influencing me or just them providing that opportunity that thing that i needed and wanted. like i felt like i couldnt live without it. i think there were times where like if i didnt have alcohol for a, i dont know, like x amount of time, like maybe, twelve, twelve to twenty four hours. if i ever went to have that, i would start getting like shaky. 
um i see myself hopefully graduating college, like with the next year, year and a half. um, and then hopefully moving um, out of state to um, either pittsburgh because i have my dads side of the family there, and they have kids. um, or [name] and i have talked about like moving to colorado just to get a get away from everything that has happened here. and try to start somewhere else. because i think, i have always wanted to move, and i feel like that would just be a good thing to leave everything negative here. even including my family honestly. 
um, not totally cut ties with them or anything. but just the way that they are, i feel like that is kinda toxic still. um, but i have been coping with that better, so i just feel like moving away and starting raising a family is probably what is going to happen soon. 
nope. 
thats like a really broad question, but (laughs.) um, just
grew up with my mother because um, um, thats just the only person ive really grown up with. and then i was with my grandparents a lot because she worked a lot. then, ive beeni grew up in a really small town in [town], so i lived there until i was eighteen, and then we moved up here when i graduated. and, ive lived in [city] since then. and i went to [university] for a year and then i transferred down here. ive changed my major like, five times, and now im currently looking at occupational therapy (laughs.) thats pretty much it.
not really, thats pretty basic.
just because yeah. (laughs.)
(laughs.) well, yeah, i cant do that.
, like, every day because i have like, really bad anxiety and stuff. so, i mean i see a doctor for it now, but i typically experience that pretty often.
um i guess ok. i mean, i actually see a therapist person for it, and um because i have like, really bad social anxiety and just a few other things, so i do that. and then, im supposed to like, see a doctor and stuff for it.
t goes up and down, so i cant always like, control it or have like, say one time is worse than the other because i just get in weird cycles i guess?
h no, its been since i was little, so it might have, it might be, it might have gotten worse in the past two years, probably, but ive always had it.
get asked that all the time, like, with my little therapist person and stuff, and i have no idea. it just seemed to like, kind of gradually get worse and so some aspects of it have gotten worse and others have gotten better, but its still like, equivalent because if one thing gets better then something else gets worse, so
um, thats whats hard for me to understand because a lot of the times, its like little, like, simple, like things that should be simple everyday things that are really difficult for me.
um, at this point, not really, but i mean, its still pretty early because i like, havent been going for too long now. so
nt like, give an exact time
ke, because it just will happen frequently. like, if i get put in like, new situations or just like, anything that would make me feel uncomfortable. (laughs.)
ne. this would be one of those moments, but (laughs.) im fine. 
um, i dont know how it looks from the outside, but from my perspective, like, i dont know, like i get panic attacks and stuff too, which are really terrible, but um
what do, what exactly do you mean, just like
um, like, a ton of different things will be going through your mind, where like your mind races and stuff and it just kind of feels like its hard to explain, but um
dont know. whats that?
ure there are things, but i mean, like, if im like, having a panic attack or something, then even though i know its like something little, but it doesnt seem like it could be worse at that time. but its just like, i dont know, i just have to kind of, get over it. (laughs.)
um, i would say like, in between the middle and the worst. because like, after it happens or like, just, any time before it happens, i know its not a big deal, but it just happens and it seems like it is, but 
um, not really.
have a pretty like, low work schedule 
o, i only work three days a week, and ive been there for almost two years now and theyre like, really lenient so i guess it does sometimes. ive been late a lot.
nd, but, its just like they dont really care, so i just kind of show up.
um, just like my work schedule, i guess, because im able to kind of pick whatever i want just because im in school and everything, so they let me kind of get by with whatever. 
yeah.
um just like actually not showing up, so like being late and stuff a lot of the time. like, i can get by with it more than i would that [state] job, definitely, but it still like, affects me a little bit because it still shows up.
ther people notice. (laughs.)
um, what like, do you just mean like, from being late, or just like the anxiety and stuff?
ke, if im late, yeah. because they tell me all the time. because ive been gone a lot, but um the other, um, um, like, i said i have like really bad social anxiety, so i usually dont talk to people very much, but when i do, im pretty quiet and whatever, so it just depends upon who it is, i guess, like their personality, and just like, if people talk to me a lot, like some people will bug you a lot so you cant really avoid them, but (laughs.)
would definitely say that would be a big one because again, like the social aspect of it, so, um, thats one of the things that we have to talk about and stuff a lot when i go to my little meetings and um, stuff because thats probably like one of my biggest areas where it affects me. and i cant always do everything like i want to or that like, that my friends would want to or something because its just really uncomfortable for me and its something i cant do.
what do you mean, like?
um um i dont really know how to answer that one.
h, ok. um, just like when we go out and do something, like, a lot of times im not going to be able to do everything. even if i like, wanted to do something, i just wouldnt be able to. like, sometimes if it gets really bad, im just like, sitting there doing nothing and not saying anything because like, all i can do is think about stuff, and then i do that way too much.
um, that one is actually really hard to answer because like, if im like, out and in a social setting or something, then a lot of times like, its going to be affected because of that
not really. its pretty equal between all of them.
, um mean im a pretty quiet person anyways, butand well, it depends upon like, how long ive know you and like just where were at and everything. but id say it affects me a lot because a lot of times, like, um, i usually just dont talk because i get like, really like nervous and anxious and everything and then i just like (laughs.) its weird i dont know how to explain it but i usually, im either really quiet and just kind of sit there. (laughs.) i have like, a lot of things going through my head, but i just for some reason cant just like, talk about it anymore and so
um, thats really like, hard to answer because like, if like, when youre actually talking about the anxiety and stuff. like i wouldnt say a whole lot stays the same because like sometimes if it gets really bad, like i just start thinking about things and, like i said, ill be really quiet and its just not exactly how i want to be, but it happens and i cant really control it.
y mind just like races about everything or like, even if i want to sayit gets really annoying because ill think about it, and ill know i want to say something. and its just like even little things. its not like i have to say something important, but just like, talk to someone. i cant even say it and then it frustrates me. (laughs.)
um, yeah, i guess so. like, i go up and down a lot but its not usually, i dont know, kind of something i keep to myself like just when im at home or something because likealong with the anxiety it just, my mood will just like be fine and then ill drop pretty drastically and then ill be fine again. its really weird. ive tried just to ignore it.
um, well the whole being normal and then dropping is consistent with me so, um that is not anything that
ts just im always like that. like, ive always had that and just the anxiety and stuff. it kind of goes together, i guess. 
just, i dont know, its just part of like my normal, everyday life, i guess. so, if im not experiencing one thing its the other, so
um, i dont know if iti mean, it does change like because i dont reallyoh, thats really hard to describe actually. (laughs.) but, it doesnt like um xxxx. i dont even really know how to answer. like, i have no idea about this one um, but like, if it changes, just like when im out and i get really nervous, like i cant like i cant really talk about it or anything butthats not even what i mean exactly, not like talking about. its all kind of just doing something. but at the same time, like, um, im always like i think way too much more than i should. (laughs.) not really too much, but just like real little things that people are, like, i dont knowshould come naturally to you or something. i just spend a lot of time thinking about it, not doing it. (laughs.)
no, not really.
yeah.
would say they do a lot because i have to like, deal with it every day. like because im either here, and thats like, really difficult for me sometimes, or just like going to work. although ive been there for almost two years now, its pretty much the same people so its not as bad.
just like little things like walking into places, like into different rooms and stuff its really uncomfortable for me. or, just anything, really. and like, if i have to take a test or something, it gets, like, um, i get like way too anxious before i have to take it and then i end up forgetting everything, so it doesnt always work out taking it.
um, just like, i dont know, id say those are the two main things and probably the two worst things that could affect it. (laughs.)
um, i wouldnt say any other ways
yeah, it does that a lot.
d say its gotten like a little better as far as school goes. i mean, its still bad, but like i guess it did used to be a lot worse as far as school went, but other areas in my life, its not any better and its not worse. (laughs.) but with like school, like if i knew i was going to be late at all, id rather just not go at all, just because i didnt want to have to walk into the room with a bunch of people already in the room.
not very well. (laughs.) um, its just like i cant always like, if i do try to control it, it just makes it worse sometimes maybe not worse, but just doesnt help either.
um i would say, id say theyre affected. i dont know, like to what extent, but, um
just because like, i get really weird, like (laughs.) i dont know or something, so i dont always say anything, so its just like, we, kind of awkward for me, and (laughs.)
um, just like, not liking to do certain things is hard... (laughs.)
just dont, i dont like being around a lot of people so, um i guess thats more of just like the whole thing i described, like if i had to walk into the room even if i was like one or two minutes late, i just wouldnt go. um, that affects me because it reflects on like, what i can do. 
no, that was just kind of like
yeah. but um i dont know it just depends because um (laughs.)
nd then im not going toits not that i dont believe them or i think theyre lying, but i just dont want to hear it. (laughs.)
hopefully graduating.
nd not making things so difficult, but (laughs.) i have no idea because i dont really know what im doing.
probably a lot. i dont really know either. i would um i dont have my bachelors degree yet, but im technically like a junior, but i still think i have like two more years before i can get away with that. and i had planned on doing, like, um, occupational therapy stuff and i think that that requires like a masters degree, so
probably a lot. (laughs.)
um, not really.
no.
um, i was born in mexico, and i came here when i was five years old. um, uh. i have eight brothers and sisters, no wait. i have seven siblings right now. and when i was in elementary school, they told me i could participate in this magnet program, so i did. [inaudible] school. so i went to shortridge, and after that i went to high school. [inaudible] um, i do not know what to say. i do not know. this is weird.
um, during high school when i was fifteen, i was having some family issues, so they took me away from my parents. and i aged out of the system, and i lived on my own. um, i came to iupui in 2012, so just after high school. 
um, well i went into therapy when i was thirteen and i am still in therapy. so there is that too. um, i feel like i am going everywhere.
ke i am going everywhere.
nnot.
ke i have to talk about, um.
guess the biggest one is when i was five, i had this uncle that was living with us.
h, ok.
k.
um, two years. well, i had a girlfriend and we were going out for maybe a year and a half and she. well we broke it off and that was like a huge thing to me because that was the first relationship that i had. and, it was a strong one and i did not realize that i um was kind of attached to her in a way. and, so, then other stuff happened, like i lost my job and i kind of lost a relationship that i had with her family, because they were my foster family too. so, after that i attempted to commit suicide. that was a big one. nothing really before that. 
um, it was horrible. i stopped taking my pills. um, i started having hallucinations and um, hearing things again. i kind of just gave up, [inaudible]. 
how long in the past?
yeah, i feel like when i was with my parents i felt like that all the time. like, i was depressed all the time, and i did not want to do anything anymore. i wanted to just give up and not keep going. and it was the little things it was not huge things that happened. 
um, not being able to trust anybody, and, the lack of social support that i had. my family is not very open to anything. so, it was hard for them to help me, and when i did try to reach out, their response was very negative, so that made it hard. 
um, well, going to therapy helped. um, i mean i did have a lot of different therapists. they just kept switching out, and somebody would leave, or i was just be switched for no reason. um,  i had teachers at school that were really helpful with me. um, i had some friends, but mostly the teachers helped me a lot. [inaudible]
what do you mean?
um, i do not know.  i do not [inaudible].
with my break up or?
yeah, well i stopped going to classes for a bit. um, vocational function? what do you mean by that?
did not work, i was fired. well i was not fired i was pretty much let go because i was going to be in school again. that was pretty much it.
um, i isolated at that point. isolated a lot. um, i stopped talking to people. i did not want to see people at all. even my roommate, i just stopped talking to everybody. 
um, what was different, well at the time i guess i had a very negative personality. um, just very negative. i do not think anything stayed the same at that time. 
um, [inaudible], i mean i was just negative all the time. that is pretty much it.
the breakup?
um, i mean it pretty much took over, because that is what i was thinking about all the time. i felt like i could not get out of it. and even after i got therapy for a while like, i, it feels like i cannot get out of it. even though its been awhile now.
um, well, uh, my thing was when anything bad happened, i use to cut. and when that happened, it had been a while seen i did not cut. but when it did happen it was a lot harder to not think about cutting. and, so i started scratching first and then thats when i started cutting again. so it was really hard to control my mental state, i guess. 
um, my foster parents were worried about me. um, even my biological family were worried. they did not find out until later, but they were really worried about me. people were just on the edge about me every time. i felt like they to say, they had to be careful about what they and what not.
did not get that?
um, i guess everybody became overprotective. they were always watching out for me. making sure that someone was home when i got home. um, they would call me, they would text me making sure that i was ok. they just became overprotective.
ter the breakup?
just anything. um, well i see myself as being a social worker, trying to help kids with issues that they have gone through. so, pretty much my goal. 
 i dont know where my goggles are.
 i dont know. [rattling and crunching sounds] did you take them with you?
 oh
 yeah, i took it. 
 uh right.
 [inaudible] it wasnt hard. actually yeah, it was kind of because the [inaudible]- f
 [inaudible] park your car here [inaudible] so i was like dang it [inaudible] surprised me [inaudible]
 yeah
 [inaudible] it was like in a like i had to take like every single highway basically
 i went 75, 65 north or from 65 north to 70 and from 70 to 465 
 and then i was [inaudible] but then after that you go down north 465 merge onto i70 then you have to bend onto 65 south or something.
 [inaudible] but then i watched [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 yeah its not that bad. actually its rush hour
 um we went swimming at like 9 um so because today was the thursday its the-
 [inaudible] thing. i swam 6 laps
 it was 600 meters about .3 miles
 1.1
 yeah i have to bike 65 and then i have to lunge 12 point
 [inaudible] had to pay [inaudible] to use the thing.
 its just [inaudible] its part of the intramural [inaudible]
 yeah follow him
 i wanted to try them
 are they good?
  not as good [inaudible]
 i wanted to try them, you can try one of [inaudible] because i got to [inaudible] so [inaudible]why not? [inaudible] my jagtag. oh have you looked at unstoppables uh oh yeah you got fabric softener
 would it be too much to use the unstoppables and [inaudible] lets stop [inaudible] risky. is that for later or is that ours?
 ok
 making sure we understand each other here [inaudible] so, i read more of what the experiment is for. its supposed to be like measuring stress response [inaudible] so i guess [inaudible] so it could be anything. [inaudible] i feel so good after a [inaudible]
 they are kicking her out. aw thats adorable but [inaudible] so wait theyre trying to kick her out? 
 well i guess thats a harsh way to [inaudible] oh thanks for the chocolate bunny it was really really good. it was like legit good [inaudible]
 oh yeah, you did! oh my gosh, thats funny
 oh, dang it. [inaudible] this off. umm
 i was going to ask you if you could remind of doing something but then i realized ill probably remember it later. [inaudible] i know we were kind of hesitant about their wedding but i think it was a good call.
 yeah but then like i knew we would be happier once we got [inaudible] once it was all said and done, happier than we would if we didnt do it all. oh my gosh, my sheet, smells so good. see, i didnt pay attention to you because i know how to fold a fitted sheet. [inaudible] can you help me?
 can you help me?
 fold it
 i washed my bedding at my house last week
 uh huh
 yeah [inaudible] but when you sleep on it, its amazing [inaudible]
 i work just to get stuff done. bye! you can come too if you want! oh yes please, thank you. im lame, we are lame but you know what
 they said they wanted to go work on homework and i was like sounds like a perfect opportunity
 i think im going to vacuum up that paint stuff in the hallway [inaudible]
 what?
 not with me and i was going to bring one too. maybe its god telling us that we should focus on our homework. no! [name]
 [inaudible] the only thing i need [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 he did? by himself?!
 wow
 why?
 really?
 you could take weekends off or something, right?
 right
 yeah
 i almost died, how bad was it? 
 gosh, i thought i was going to die
 yeah. ok.
 i was thinking of  taking a third job too, or even a second job
 about the apartment?
 yeah
 i had to deliver my scholarship application to the place today because they said that they needed to receive it by april 1st not like- have it postmarked. so, i went. because i didnt get done until today at 12, i was working on, before we went to umm
 subway yeah. and so i went, it was like a 20 minute drive. i delivered it to them and drove back. but ---like- it wasnt even that big of a deal and by the way if you are going to [end of recording]
 im going to try to get [inaudible] done today but [inaudible] im kind of ready for this thing to be done [inaudible]
 lets see whose [inaudible] are first [inaudible]
 math is just more fun 
 look, its annoying when i have to log on [inaudible] always forget my [name] username
 you have to adjust it. so its not that, i dont think so [inaudible]
 retained earnings
 like eleven
 i think it varies
 its almost time for the quiz or test or something. shoot. 
 what? how am i going to make [inaudible]
 did i tell you that, actually i havent told anybody, but im thinking about studying for a fall semester outside of the country
 like for a full semester
 like next year since i dont like having a roommate. not that im like- trying to get away from anything but like-
 yeah like maybe spain or something. probably, preferably spain but
 theres ways you can do it like i could go through iu
 well like cause i have a study abroad stipend. so like i dont know. like dont tell anyone yet but like um because i dont really know for sure but im thinking about it. like my mom wants me to see what i can do with that. but theres really not much i can do until- until they like have it all set up next year
 but like[end of recording]
 what?
 i need to put my contacts in. 
 let me see them [inaudible]
 nah its your turn 
 hey um my name is [name] and im just wondering where the hell-
 yah, mon
 yeah
 okay
 and then you multiply it out?
 okay
 alright, thanks
 and then um 
 alright, thank you
 um im having a bit of trouble with these um double integrals
 so..
 negative three, yeah. 
 yeah
 yeah
 yes
 yeah
 yes
 so i guess that you have to [inaudible]
 oh really?
 [inaudible] i guess since you guys have the clinic [inaudible] stuff that [inaudible]
 okay [inaudible] your room
 you have to take what?
 i dont know what you are talking
 but yeah [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 does he still has it?
 [name] is playing 2k or black ops probably [inaudible]
 alright cool
 well, see you
 talk to you when i see you. oh wait wait wait
 i think [inaudible]
 i think [inaudible]
 [name]
 huh?
 umm we are going to play videogames and stuff [inaudible]
 why?
 oh, well it sounds sarcastic 
 let me see how dirty it is. oh not kidding its something ive never seen
 [inaudible] my room looks like that too
 [inaudible] alright
 oh man. alright well, i can probably let you go clean up then
 ill see you when i see you [inaudible]
 okay
 yeah
 yeah
 uh huh
 yeah [inaudible] how it is
 [inaudible]
 sure
 i dont care
 sure. yeah sometimes he gets like that [inaudible] too. and its like sometimes he gets really close to hurting her and sometimes he does hurt her and then [inaudible] it gets very chaotic 
 thank you
 alright thank you
 no thats bullshit [inaudible] 
 wait where is coco?
 i thought coco was going to play too
 why?
 well fine. alright [name] i havent played in like forever so
 oh good we are winning already good
 i cant mom
 because i cant leave
 yeah you better
 sorry
 yeah you better be
 dang it
 i was on a kill streak too. i got an rcxd. really, a bouncing betty?
 hey,  let me [inaudible]
 i talk to [name] all of the time. he is hilarious.
 (hes) never doing shit. ever. im like hey man, are you busy or something? youre calling me. youve got an appointment?
 yeah, oh theres [name].
 what? oh [name] hey, whats up, dude?
 huh?
 are you done with xxxx?
 yeah.
 [inaudible]
 i think weve got rush hour.
 [inaudible]
 no, its not the chicken. chris rock is the chicken.
 theyre both the chicken?
 that makes no sense. no, thats chris tucker, not chris rock.
 he was like, oh yeah! hi yah
 damn, chris tucker just got whooped.
 lets go!
 come on man, go for the foul.
 no way.
 [inaudible] baby.
 i aint going just to roll with her. [inaudible]. you know, you go out and then im going to be the only guy and then shes going to be like whats up and im gonna be like shit, now i gotta baby.  
 what do you mean, man?
 better you than me, man. shit. i aint trying to deal with that incest bullshit all over again.  
 hell yeah. damn. 
 im allowed to go through, i get to go through the recordings before and like, delete anything i dont like. and im not going to delete anything. 
 like at a party. 
 like its really funny because ill be by myself, most of the time im by myself and im not doing anything. im reading or im on the computer
 no, its for a study. and so
 theyve paid me a bunch of money so far.
 they, they give me cash. theyve given me 80 bucks so far.
 yeah and they [inaudible]. the moneys already in the budget so yeah, give it to me. 
 it didnt have anything to do with your race?  
 its not that bad.
 goddamn. what the fuck.
 should we go friday through sunday or thursday night?
 memorial days coming up. and you dont want to leave indianapolis on memorial day. 
 and [name]s birthday.
 youve never been before, right?
 the race is fucked up. ive been there what 2 years long or a year and a half. 
 i keep getting lost. i dont know what the hell is going on.
 its going to be hard to get a nonstop. you know usairways and american airlines [inaudible]. but american has a big airline in miami, a big base. [inaudible]. cause the gas prices are very cheap. youve got two smaller airlines right there.
 we booked a hotel under [inaudible].
 hey, come here [inaudible] hey come here, baby.
 i think she is just gonna
 page 13sorry, uhh, 133
 the temperature faster
 wait dont do that. dont do that.
 we have to do all three of these
 yea, we do.
 yes. the temperature thing. yea you do. the calculations.
 he just said to do all three.
 i was gonna say, yea
 im gonna find her.
 huh?
 thats crazy because if you look at the calculations
 yea theres only one. you can put all your temperature and all your [inauble] and volts.
 okay.
 i was going to say, there is no [inaudible].
 yea right.
 well thats fun.
 well thats fun.
 so were only just doing one. thank you, for not letting me [laughing]
 because he was justi wasi didnt see any reason to do [inaudible] with the ice pack. i didnt see any reason to use the ice pack. i didnt understand why you would use the ice pack.
 probably a good cause
 i feel like he only gets [inaudible]i wouldnt [inaudible]
 alright! now we just wait til 48
 they have to get them, they have to have a house [inaudible]
 for the [inaudible]
 but we cant help them if [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 i wish we could help name and name2
 it would be a bad house though it looks nicer than the one they have now.
 [inaudible] and tile would be, you know even if it is pink it would be easier to cleanwhen does she want to meet with us?
 you want to go look at those, uh that thing that, to, that you wanted to get? those [inaudible] thingsthe [inaudible] down things?
 you dont have to, i just thought you wanted to trybecause i found an appwhere we can add each other as friends and put our food on, um, put our food on this tracker then it tells [inaudible]and then it tells us how each other are doing on our goal [inaudible].
 [inaudible]
 right, i dont know how long i could live with name in here every day. well actually name2, really.
 give me your [inaudible]
 you want to see if they want to go out to dinner? [inaudible]
 what time are they coming?
 its 7
 i was gonna see if they want to come over, then we can go out after that. if you wantafter they get herei dont know. i feel bad for name. i wish they would have just called us
 oh, like park name. yea. no, yea. noyea
 well thats a cosmic shift
 its interesting, though. you know the amount you save up for retirement, if you move to like country1, or country2, or some of these places, you could live a very luxurious lifestyle with that money, but nobody does it. few people do it.
 how awesome would it be to have to zipline to your house?
 itd have to be so isolated that you have to ziplinetheres actually places where that is like the thing.
 huh? oh, is it ready?
 i dont think it counts at all
 that sounds really bad.
 yea.
 yea.
 so you have to [inaudible]here, is the [inaudible]thats the standard temperature actually, [inaudible].
 so you use both, right?
 the non-standard equation, and then that numbers the k down here. really all youre doing, you have to show steps [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 yea, im pretty confidentat least for most of it
 but i dont know how much he is expecting us to do
 name, you want to jump into one of the groups?
 they are being really quiet.
 so youve seen that, you havent just done that? so, what this is saying is that these sps can kind of hit each other like that, but the pions have the ability to do the two spots.
 theoretically this one could be able to do the two spotsi think thats what it is getting at.
 never.
 because the nature of the pion is the p
 yep. yes.
 alright. any other questions?
 if you email me
 okayi dont know if you were here. i said i was going, im going to write a, write, im going to copy practice problems from different places to kind of make a final exam that will be as long as your final exam.
 and im going to post a key to it. and i was going, because i was going to see if you guys wanted to stay late next friday, and if people wanted to do the jeopardy review instead. so i am going to make it, and its going to look a little like mine didi dont know if it will be identical
 similar problems from both titles, so you can get some acs type questions, too.
 and then you guys, i recommend taking it sitting down. preferably in a classroom that is opened, so then, because you know if youre not leaning up against your bed
 it doesnt have the right feelingum but yea.
 well wed have to draw it. so we havebecause we have ourno.these are anti-[inaudible].
 and it hasour one ssso into
 yea! well remember if you want to send it by emailno promises, but ill try to get to it, and umtry, if you do some of the questions try to put the answer, write the answer somehowjust because then i dont want to send you a ton of work, and then you send it back and say you made a calculator error. and then i have to redo everything, and then you get confused because then you put back and youre like which way is the right way? i can also, um, i have company name which i work through if you need, um, if theres some problem in the book that you look at that you want to know how to do, i can look it up and screen cast that question. whatever you need. have a good day, name.
 [laughing]
 what?
 you are?
 i grabbed names shoes. these dont fit me
 i dont know [inaudible]
 it depends on the shoe.
 it dependssomewhere between 12 and 14.
 well sometimes 12 and sometimes 14.
 i dont know, maybe its because im not wearing socks.
 [inaudible]
 i dont know. i dont think he likes grass.
 he doesnt like the grass?
 what?
 around the swings?
 like in the yard?
 yea.
 know?
 at least power, cable, and internet.
 one of those blows.
 im [inaudible].
 [inaudible], lose power?
 there is power everywhere, even right where you are
 if one of those things blows up, the entire world would be a different sky.
 wow!
 except for the [inaudible]
 i guess that makes sense.
 another [inaudible]but right now it is. its 7
 its not weird?...i think its weird.
 were going to be in bed, when they are going to school.
 in china?
 when its 3 in the afternoon here, its 3 in the morning there
 i heard that {inaudible word} is in everyones way. 
 so you broke the pipe, so its just pouring on the floor? 
 hmmm.
 sounds like you had a busy day. 
 so everyone was busy..
 oh thats good, [i] guess
 hmmm
 [silence for ~30 sec]
 hmm sounds like it.
 [inaudible]
 yeah i ought to. we can do that. 
 and dont be afraid to text me. 
 alright well, [inaudible] i guess ill talk to you later then.
 youre welcome and happy birthday again
 i will. love you too. you too. bye. 
 huh hmmm? 
 i already ate, sorry. 
 out row didnt get tests
 i mean, you can give me a hundred instead.
 god forgive me for all my sins. god.. 
 please forgive me for all my sins
 please forgive me for all my sins. amen
 please forgive me for all my sins. thank you god. amen. 
 alright.
 [inaudible speech] alright. 
 wheres my flashlight? dammit!  
 [whispering inaudible speech] 
 [sings the following with the same melody..] i dont want to do, do this shit. right i dont want to do my chemistry homework, but i do want to get some music on. 
 oh god. [laughter]
 i dont know. 
 feasibly its probably 120 because that 16 per 18 credit hours. so ill be taking like.. probably 80 then.
 oh my gosh, how much does 80 cost? 
 okay, so 80 uh points will cost about 12,000 dollars. us. then theres probably room and board, then you throw on top of that, then theres eighteen hundred for a plane ticket. 
 yes
 yes. 
 because where the hell are we going to put get the money anyway? or put the money. 
 this is going to make me so poor. 
 hmmm yeah id prefer not to. 
 i just realized, we also need to apply for student visas. 
 oh god that would suck so badly. 
 does anybody have any felonies that they need to tell us about? 
 that was incredibly dark. 
 i jaywalk all the time
 hm yeah. 
 count me out. 
 i mean its not like a really bad felony. 
 stealing a car. 
 okay, so we can either apply for a visa through the school or through the new zealand immigration office. 
 okay.
 guys well just share all of our scholarships. 
 oh yeah. 
 no i have not.
 its the capital. 
 i have a feeling that the cost of living there is going to be atrocious. 
 want some icing for your popcorn? 
 this is where i stopped watching it. 
 have you seen them yet? 
 what are we doing in there? target rise range?
 [inaudible]
 alright
 oh god
 thats ridiculous. ive never been in that bad of traffic.
 yes
 yes
 [inaudible]
 yes
 yes
 i knew it was going to be slick, i guess not everybody else thought about that.
 yes, but i knew the bridges were probably slick. [inaudible]
 [inaudible] 
 im going to study a little bit for biology.
 its supposed to record my surroundings every once in a while. [inaudible]
 i left it [inaudible]
 oh cool. 
 no its not its an ipod.
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 i told you maybe. [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 no dont touch that. dont touch it
 stop it. get away from it.
 up
 dont touch that. not for you.
 what?
  what? stop. stop touching it. honey when i tell you to do something.
 stop. 
 i dont know.
 boo. wash your feet. [inaudible]
 got to wash those dirty feet.
 [inaudible] 
 did i get your eye. 
 i dont think i did. stop put it down.
 boo. whats that all about?
 i can move the water.
 one more time ok.
 no. come on.
 you are getting my shirt wet. ok.
 do you have lotion in here.
 [inaudible] can someone get me the lotion?
 ok, come on
 come on
 get out.
 get out. come on its after nine oclock. youve been playing all day. you have until three to get out. one
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 no. come here now.
 you dont want to?
 it doesnt matter what you want.
 i have. you have to do what i say.
 cause im. im the dad.
 yes i am. i am the daddy.
 yes i am.
 piltroll?
 papa troll?
 pal pa troll?
 im daddy.
 really?
 yes. ive always been daddy. i am the daddy. i am your big daddy.
 [inaudible]
 find it somewhere at the store. did you tell your dad how much we found? [inaudible]
 did you tell him?
 we had 24 boxes, 25 boxes.
 [inaudible]

 surprised.
 yeah, show him what deal to buy, and hell give me cash.
 uh, yes please.
 you have a wonderful day!
 yeah. isnt it?
 can you imagine just tripping and just stumbling into that? just being like, oh, my god.
 thats what i was thinking. just so your dads food doesnt get cold.
 what? this is taking a while to adjust to?
 we are actually 20 minutes away from [inaudible] group. somehow it is supposed to be a 10 minute drive to this place. maybe we werent that far off. were in [city] right now.
 this place doesnt look that bad. 
 well, its like [name] says. we are just a pit stop for the world. 
 what?
 uh yeah? well thats where i was born and raised and im proud of that. just kidding. i dont really care. people who are proud of where they came from, because they were born there is fucking dumb.
 it makes it less funny but more socially acceptable. [laughs] like the [inaudble] i have going on right now? but i think i am dominating him?
 that was really good! my whole room smelled like [inaudible]
 what?
 once we get the floor [inaudible]
 well i would just put like [inaudible]
 well, so does mine but
 see, i dont really care what my games look like.
 well i just dont think
 yeah.
 but if you turn on the anti-aliasing it sometimes helps. 
 oh shit youre right. 
 uh, you can just stack them upright. i mean ask him how he wants it. i thought he wanted them upright for the sled.
 everyone move out of the way, im doing a handstand!
 [name] is a straight up slut.
 a slut.
 youre a wolf. did i tell you my package got stolen?
 my weed.
 oh, thats why he was looking for the screw driver.
 can you get screw drivers clogged? can you not get through it anymore?
 wheres the bubbler?
 you should move it out to the living room.
 so that other people can use it! you hate her the most. you shouldnt get her piece.
 yeah, uh, is yours the broken one?
 yeah, it was right over here
 it was right over here the other day. 
 wheres his mexican guitar?
 what? is it not on the mexican guitar because thats where i saw it last.
 did you hear about it?
 he forgot his lyrics.
 see theres his capo.
 your capo is broken.
 oh.
 i think [name] just grabs whatever is closest.
 you hungry at all?
 [inaudible]
 just use his capo. what?
 is that my money?
 oh really? where on the floor?
 because i thought it was on the table.
  yeah, i didnt know what the fuck that was. i stepped on that this morning. i dont know what we would have had!
 but when have we had anything crunchy?
 oh, that might have been what [name] was looking for a screwdriver for.
 oh. okay. i think hes looking for one for his guitar. oh, no
 yeah ill talk to [name] about not using random thing to clean resin.
 shut the fuck up, man!
 bitch, its [name]. i thought it was a bad idea.
 oh, when [name] [inaudible], we smoked out of a soldering iron.
 we were making bowls out of it. 
 and it just kept disappearing so we just kept putting new ones in. we found out were just smoking all of them.
 my money? so you definitely just saw it on the floor though?
 wheres my e-cig, do you see it?
 dude, be like, heres the secretarys number. and give them a number that doesnt exist, so its just im important she cant get a hold of me. find a company called secretaries united.
 thats on you. i already do that in my life.
 aldi is exciting to me.
 anything is an adventure when youre with me.
 this is way more challenging than it should be.
 i [inaudible] go with you tonight.
 probably. i wish i could grow chest hair.
 well, like actually grow it.
 yeah thats not super attractive.
 at least you dont have boob hair. [name] did. it was weird.
 yeah, i dont think you realize how sick of a human being she was. when you dont eat your whole body gets fucked up.
 yeah.
 cause i do.
 i dont know. they kind of touch each other. touch my hands [inaudible].
 a handful. a handful of boobs. how big are your boobs? a handful. do you know your girlfriends bra size? i dont know. its about handful. 
 so if i ever have to go to victorias secret, they will be like, how big are her boobs? 
 i will need to feel all of you to figure out
 which size is the closest... 
 and then i will give [name] my answer. just, can i feel different shaped rocks that slowly increase in size and tell you when it feels right?
 so ill be like, what boob size is she? average.
 what are you? 34c?
 what are you?
 b?
 i dont know.
 are you sure theyre a b?
 yeah i was like [name]s girlfriend, when he was in high school and she was in middle school, was a c. and she had smaller tits than you. i think she probably still does. she could have been lying. shes kind of a whore. 
 she cheated on me, and like [name 1] wont believe it. hes like [name] and [name] raped her. i was like what?
 [name] something. [name 1]s current girlfriend.
 theyve been dating for a while.
 yes.
 nothing what did you do?
 you want to see the video?
 i said, do you want to see a funny video?
 im not putting it on the internet! [inaudible]
 what? dont. 
 what a dumbass.
 no, im not some faggot.
 what up homes?
 super fucking easy too dude. im playing the hardest difficulty right now.
 yeah.
 yeah.
 aw fuck. i did not like the looks of those things. those look like bombs.
 i dont know either. ill found out in a bit.
 to what? 
 oh like, whenever you get someone like thats from that world in your party it replaces another member. and every world has its own person that you play with when youre in there.
 yeah. 
 and you have a bunch. oh, whats the eliminator? i kept seeing those fucking things. oh, just kidding. i killed that thing.you have pretty cool abilities. i have trinity, which i no longer want. you can like, you have so much to work with. im super aerial. i just put things up into the air and fuck their day up. its pretty fun. so i just like to fuck shit up constantly. like that.
 im not switching my key blade. you get different key blades. yeah, this is fun. uh, great. canada.
 i dont know. they may.
 well im sure they have weed, but i dont think its a legal matter yet. 
 i dont think so.
 they may have medical.
 yeah to sixteen and two.
 is that how you did sixteen?
 what did you use for eight? or you can do four times four times two.
 [inaudible]
 and then this one would be the cube root of um, just add another four right? four times four times four. times four times two.
 hold up. its not right though. i think its just the fours. 
 the two is not there. that equals 256. four to the fourth is 256 so then that one pull out the answer would just be 16 for that one right? 
 and then this one would be
 so thats going to have to return an answer.
 okay so two plus four uh eight two [inaudible] wait its the cube root you cant put fours in.
 i forgot all about that.
 uh yeah.
 yeah.
 your cool 4 cube rooted two.
 yeah uh for 256 i can pull out uh pull out.
 4 and 64.
 yeah.
 i can change 4 to the root of two, or no?
 never mind it didnt work uh.
 128.
 we got 64 again.
 yeah.
 okay and those together no.
 this is as far as we can go.
 thanks.
 uh no its just the examples she gave us.
 uh you can probably find a similar example somewhere.
 plus x
 i moved it all over here so.
 yeah so negative 5 and 7 is two so uh.
 uh no the negative 2 is right here thats where that is i maybe did that wrong.
 wait 4 plus 5 is 9.
 minus 7.
 yeah i put 4. oh yeah i got it right.
 negative 10.
 plus 2x squared.
 yeah square everything again.
 yeah thats right
 yeah i moved all that stuff over there. i just did it in my head and put it on the side.
 they must have the answer in the back maybe i dont have to go farther than that.
 uh solve the equation
 uh yeah it says the answer is negative 1. yeah.
 yeah.
 47. 5 plus 6 equals 4 plus 3 x. 
 thats right. should i try the quadratic? if i plug in negative one into here it doesnt come out as the right answer.
 you dont?
 yeah.
 okay, whats the next step then?
 all right
 i wonder when the next one off the grill is.
 ill be out this weekend, next weekend, the next weekend, and then ill be back
 yo what time do you have class
 fuck. youre not going to be able to make it. thats like an hour drive.
 dude thats what i said i felt so bad i was like uh, i told him i was like, you left out the best part dude i texted him [inaudible] 
 [inaudible] my unit self
 did you order that last time?
 did you order that last time?
 what song is that?
 whats the wedding song, how does that go?
 yeah there you go.
 holy shit.
 yeah.
 which one?
 thats a cool piece.
 did you get my uh?
 were you talking to me, yeah did you get my messages this morning with the pictures?
 did you actually use them?
 is that that african language?
 starving marvin
 i trained myself. im trying to teach myself how to whistle it just gets annoying. i used to whistle with the gap between my teeth but i dont have that anymore 
 i know
 if i didnt know it, then i had a pretty damn good guess at it. and i dont know. yeah. i think i did it right. here. how many point was it worth?
 oh. so its five points each. that sucks.
 nice. 
 its all right. i woke up at like 7
 i even studied a bit while i had my morning dip. 
 yeah
 yeah. vermont like up north?
 theres a state called vermont.
 i thought you said vermont. yeah, dude. thats why i was like no dude. vermonts up north. my  bad.
 yeah, my bad. misheard you. 
 yes. 
 yeah. give or take.
 did you guys hear about the whooping cough?
 no like students in ball hall. she got kicked out.
 she had the whooping cough.
 all right.
 oh, oh. some chick had it. in ball hall.
 theres another word for it, whooping cough is just like.
 pertussis? i thought that was the pill.
 anyways, someone got that at ball hall
 now theres free vaccination at the campus center for it.
 yeah, im going to go get it tomorrow morning.
 aw shit. 10
 well im definitely not doing homework. thats for damn sure. im over it.
 geometry wars.
 yeah, its pretty dope.
 no
 [inaudible] right there. [inaudible] makes a big difference sometimes. youre hot right? [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 either way [inaudible]
 [inaudible] heres where all the pillows were. [inaudible] pants on. oh.
 do you think this is uncomfortable? [inaudible]
 shut up! can you kill me now?
 [inaudible] just like you. okay.
 hmmm. 
 oh well.
 what just happened?
 nuh uh.
 whos the teacher?
 no..
 i will eventually , but not right now.
 [name?]
 i thought you said [name]. i dont know.
 is that calc 3?
 so i wouldnt do that then. id take 165 and 166.
 engineering
 great.
  maybe if i change it to amt i can take that. 
 oh this folds over? on this chair? these conversations are being recorded.
 yeah. they are paying me 50 bucks for this right now.
 yeah. its really dope. 
 what did i do?
 what did i do?
 no. 
 i wasnt here last thursday. 
 yeah.
  aw. 
 nah. [name]
 my professor?
 you didnt get in trouble did you?
oh.
oh! theyre graded?
 so. okay. cool  beans.
 i want to figure out what grade i got like asap
 [inaudible] that s pretty cool. psychology
 [inaudible]? yeah. yeah it is. uh which is both a compound and a pure substance?
 [singing] that would have been bad. 
 for what?
 yeah. i got it done. when i left [name]s or [name]s or
 okay. when i left there i had 7 out of the 10 done. and then when i got into class we didnt have to turn it in until the end of the class
 yeah. 
 [singing]
 oh, hold up. my bad. 
 if you factor out this. can this end up being squared? [inaudible]
 whats up man? sorry dude. whats this?
 i dont know man. 
 whos playing tonight? because it is 3 oclock and i got shit to do.
 10
 i have to work a double.
 yeah. whens the soccer [inaudible]
 at 9
 yeah people just walk the fuck in. they dont care.
 yeah, thats what i heard. ill text people and make sure. 
 i may not go though.
 but, im not like him man. i cant fucking get no sleep and then go and work 15 hours dude. its not going to work. its not going to work. like 10
 probably like [singing]. all right. well, ill be home.
 no idea. 10
 wow. this song is great. fuck.  oh shit. this shit pisses me off.
 that one all the way back there. ill turn around. no im not making [inaudible]
 im going to park across the street. 
 woo. i dont think shes ever seen me slide. like slide. you remember that one night?
 we abour threw the other car off the road. 
 yeah, but i like met knew her before she was her roommate. 
 yeah.
 i dont know. i like my race. my race is cool. im not racist, i just like you know hanging out with people my color. everyone else sketch me the fuck out. i dont trust people. my car sounds great. 
 sorry. all right where should we go?
 all right. im down. bout to take a right turn.
 yeah. i was just driving. i had no idea where i was going. [inaudible]
 i didnt think taco bell was that sketchy.
 yeah. i dont get sketched out a lot. i get the feeling and im like lets get the fuck out of here. i dont know how, but ive gotten out of so many good spot situations. i should be arrested like four times. im just lucky as fuck i dont know why. trust my gut. i have time to play guitar stoned when i get back. 
 [inaudible] is going to be there [inaudible].
 behind you, excuse me
 hot hot above you, hot above you
 [to unidentified person] bye
 [inaudible]
 in the lock in.
 where all the rest of the chicken is
 yeah. right on top of the pastrami
 no [to female]
 why? what are you looking for?
 it was right on top of the pastrami.  i took out the bin, finished off the thai chicken, put it into our thai chicken on the station, then i took off the label and put it into the dish
 i dont know why he did that, thats his fault [inaudible] that [inaudible] over here.
 chicken parm, i got your nacho
 how many nachos all day?
 got one lobster dip in, two grilled cheese in, margarita is being cut
 [name], you got those carnitas right?
 i feel bad sorry.  hold on one second, hold a second
 what? i do not have any peppers. oh. cheese please.
 [inaudible] your right hand, that why you have them in your right, towel in your left, because if you try and use the tongs in your left hand [inaudible]. you know what i mean? you cant do it. [inaudible]
 [inaudible] enchilada stack. 
 how we looking on those tortillas?
 how we looking on those tortillas?
 this does not get mozzarella cheese.  cheese, olives, garlic, basil, eggplant, roma tomatoes. and extra virgin olive oil on top. does not get mozzarella. [inaudible] his ass [inaudible].
 [name]! [name]!
 yeah. hey does that look good?
 yeah, alright
 [inaudible] your office? [inaudible] flatbread.
 i didnt think it was going to hurt that bad but
 seriously, this thing is fucking heating up
 [inaudible]
 holy shit [inaudible] fucking [inaudible]
 yeah. thank you. i was looking for that. that scared me. i had no idea where it was. 
 yeah
 i was going through my things and then like what is this? [inaudible] 
  [name]
 yeah. 
 yeah. he tells us which ones to memorize actually. 
 yeah he wrote this. he wrote basic intervals. then he says you need to know either from 1-8, 10-14, and 17 [inaudible] rules
 i want mushrooms and broccoli and carrots. 
 yeah.
 brown.
 i am sorry. 
 [inaudible]
 im just doing it. i dont have anything to do right now. cause im done with all my homework.
 nice. i dont have classes-
 i mean, i have one class at night, but i never go to that class anymore.
 that youre going to show me how you got ripped.
 shes a cannibal, man. 
 what shit?
 you know i want to fuck her right?
 [inaudible]
 what were you doing? 
 what where you doing. what were you doing that she said red? you were kissing her. you were in the process man, dont worry.
 dont do it man. send it to me as well.
 i need to get a girlfriend now. everybody has a girlfriend. 
 he has to put lipstick on. 
 yeah.
 what happened to your hair?
 its because look your hair is just like mine very curly here and straighter over here  
 simba?
 what. [inaudible] no what did you do. 
 damn. 
 um no.
 uh okay.
 uh. right now.
 yeah. yeah i just did 
 i know.
 no no i called them [inaudible] at noon.
 yeah.
 is this the xxxx center?
 [inaudible] again today. its [phone number].
 it was a [inaudible]
 you know just here
 no
 [inaudible] so then what im going to just print off the practice exams
  what happened
 yes
 yeah, when i was little.
 like you try to.
 [inaudible] again.
 so i am on your team. how did she [inaudible] your face?
 oh so thats [inaudible]
 where did it hit you? the nose?
 ouch.
 huh?
 yeah [inaudible]. so you have 3 hours of interview tomorrow?
 thats crazy. 3 hours.
 yeah. tell me if you can make it. to the [inaudible]
 you have a friend what? 
 oh yeah?
 saturday? [inaudible]
 no its friday.
 where are you?
 yeah, yeah, okay. see you.
 dont get hurt.
 [inaudible]
 not really.
 okay.
 [singing or inaudible/spanish]
 hey what are you doing [inaudible]
 so you can have horses?
 what else?
 thats okay that is a farmers hat.
 okay
 in my room
 im hungry i just want to eat.
 did you eat?
 what did you eat?
 so you did not eat. dont be telling stories now. are you sure you dont want anything to eat, yogurt or something?
 alright
 click it, click it?
 you are a farmer today arent you?
 did you get married?
 not yet
 huh?
 you get to be step buyer?
 a next [inaudible]?
 well not that way. i was letting it dry 
 because it was wet
 i worked out with it
 no, i worked out with it
 i worked out with it
 yes
 because i was sweating
 how is that possible?
 that is alright.
 i know i would know more prices
 [inaudible] wait, about what? 
 [inaudible] just got to keep it up.
 she might get her tax write off on that
 i mean you have to literally write that off [inaudible] either the company or you personally
 you are working with the wrong person
 right, dont [inaudible] want to
 no, they are not. [inaudible] log, what have you been doing?
 i picked this one you know this is. probably a 12.
 not much.
 i think i need to [] with you
 i am still talking to you. i just dont [] first, since he brought it up
 this girl thought suddenly that i was halfway over the hill. i said girl you should leave me alone. she said i look funny. i am like i am black, i dont care. she looks young for her being [inaudible] that is going to change.
 they look alike but they look different. you will know the difference. did he go like one moment.
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible] dr. [name]
 because [inaudible]
 dont give him  [inaudible]
 put them both in your mouth. she put them both on her mouth [inaudible]
 did he do [inaudible]
 you start talking and i dont start listening except after you say like the first five words
 did i ever tell you [name] asked why did daddy [inaudible] doctor so she goes [inaudible] how come [inaudible] i was like [inaudible] we never thought about it. like if we really thought about it we would have done it like daddy- i know daddy would have done it.
 [inaudible] she said [inaudible] pay soon so she could get the car out and work
 its a crosswalk i doubt that i will even go to [inaudible] i really want to thought. [inaudible] saw the chick that i work- that im going to be working with at work- at the gym. she said she had seen me but then i was like [inaudible] your friends [inaudible] i said oh, my cousin. she was like yeah [inaudible] do you know anybody who doesnt like hennessy?
 i was 21 and pregnant and they like laughed. i was like that is not funny, that is the [inaudible] do what people do when they are mid-21 and go out and drink. i was pregnant and i breastfed so [inaudible] im sorry i had to start- i had to jump start my life. my fault but still 
 oh man look there is a freaking sidewalk. like why arent you on- that really irritates me. there is a whole sidewalk there and you decided im going to ride on the street? 
 text me and like no, i got to go the car wash. i went and sat in this parking lot for a minute and he never texted me back so then i get to my moms and of course i change my clothes and i am sitting there and hes like what do you know im not going to wait [inaudible] to go out to eat. hes like if you would text me back at a reasonable time you could have saw me but you want to wait like a whole hour before you want to text me back. yeah you wait 30 minutes and im like i am not going to sit in the parking lot for 30 minutes now
 so i mean i sat there for the 15 so im like you got- you got me so come on so i was sure [inaudible] drop off these biscuits. you did that post about me?
 [name] party is on saturday. so i am not going to work on saturday.
 hello?
 yeah what was that?
 ah just heard a weird noise. so
 we go to be careful. i dont like using the [inaudible] over here. 
 i didnt. okay, i did but i didnt. i did and i didnt, well say that. 
 he was like yeah girl i was like. he said [inaudible] sorry. no, im excited. so tonight i have to take the test. i really need to finish reading this chapter but im not going to um. i owe like 65 dollar to my [inaudible
 alright well, ill move it after i move her because i have to go- i have to take her to get her car washed. so... i dont have to 
 yes 
 hi, baby. i thought [] get something to eat. are you not hungry now? you still want [inaudible] to make eggs? hang on what did you say?
 here i come
 wait til i see-
 what did you-?
 yeah why?
 what?
 the assignment, the signing video?
 its me signing you have to- it was
 what video?
 no if it is that then i did not post it 
 [name]? who is in it? 
 you are in the video?
 [inaudible]
 what is this video though?
 are you being a good boy? are you annoying [name]? 
 what?
 what?
 it does with him. drop it. just say ah. 
 i know but then he doesnt understand me. thinks you are playing. 
 please dont. its okay. stop! what?
 hey
 i really hope it gets that on recording
 who?
 no
 no
 no
 and hes retiring
 what do you mean?
 he retired?
 why?
 how old is he?
 thats not old 
 he got drafted out of highschool?
 yeah
 really?
 oh
 why?
 why though?
 oh
 what
 ok im waiting 
 what?
 i dont know 
 what do you mean? 
 he is adorable
 everybody thinks he is cute. literally everybody. look at him! he looks adorable like all the time. 
 yes he does
 who?
 i hate pomeranians
 my mom said if i would have got- i totally let [inaudible] suggest to me getting a pomeranian and she is like if you would have gotten a pomeranian i would have stopped paying your rent.
 dude, [inaudible] he barks at everything
 he would attack
 yeah he would 
 he would scare them off 
 oh i got a brownie
 yeah, no. [inaudible] anyone? come on [name]. 
 lesson is or anything. but im actually going um the reason i am up so early is because i am out of dog food for [name]. so i got to go get some dog food at pet smart or wherever the um right on michigan because there is no places downtown to get dog food that is like the kind that i need. so that is why i am up so early but i dont know when my lesson is.
 i- we havent even talked about it. so no, i dont know.
 okay
 alright mom 
 what?
 i am coming to the barn just not this second
 yes i am coming. i will be at the barn at some point today.
 love you too bye. 
 yeah she does, im pretty sure she does
 i would hire people to do it for her
 dude, she has so mu- so much money and so many different
 you couldnt keep it up
 [name]
 she is not going to give it back even if you do have a job. you know that right? you are not allowed to play it in her house.
 that is a problem. you know why? because you would kill for a damn xbox. i would-
 then i would prove to her that i could do it. mom probably would. mom would take away showing if i didnt get good grades.
 i would be devastated. 
 but i would just have to prove to her that like
 i would
 but i wouldnt kill anybody!
 i am not addicted to horses you are addicted to the game
 and then you freak out and have anxiety when you are not playing 
 yeah, so do i
 when you do healthy things
 like work or
 how is-
 you have to learn
 how is working healthy?
 um because your mind is working, you are making money, you are supporting-
 ok dads situation was a lot different than managing and working at a gas station
 yeah
 he also had bad heart problems and got health
 yeah, i know
 you dont even live with me!
 i am just trying to give you her perspective. i am not telling you mine. 
 oh hi [pet] [inaudible] run away. good girl. yeah 
 no she doesnt. [to dog
 you can think that, doesnt mean your situation is going to change whatsoever
 then you have to [inaudible] maybe you should find a healthy outlet
 like working out, thats healthy
 when?
 oh
 um i mean
 you realize you are freaking out overa internet game
 well once you get a job that will change
 you work out
 you sleep like normal people do. you hang out with people
 ok i will get it fixed! its going to happen. 
 okay, i have a lesson at four
 okay because i am not going to bathe her completely. im just going to do her tail.
 okay sounds good because i need to wash her mane, but i mean, i dont want to wash it and put it in braids
 or we can braid it after our lesson. umm yeah no i bought bathing- baking soda and a bucket, and i brought shorts because i am not going to get my pants soaking wet
 alright. okay!
 what?
 [inaudible] recording me
 i know [inaudible] isnt it scary that it could be recording me [inaudible]
 i didnt really know what i was singing myself up for
 i did [inaudible] that room
 yes
 havent got [inaudible] yet. i have to give them my spit
 no thats tomorrow
 [inaudible] from jimmy johns
 what?
 no, what do you want?
 okay, is that what you really want?
 nah, no worries
 no worries
 alright. 
 yeah [inaudible]
 yeah. [inaudible] i cant unlock it
 basically, [inaudible]
 it was like on the webpage, that was just with my research opportunities [inaudible] it was like at first it was just an online questionnaire, i filled it out and they emailed me and they wanted me to [inaudible] i need more credits anyway so i was like fine. i didnt realize how extensive it was going to be [inaudible]not knowing
 what?
 no joke, i can like delete whatever i want i get to hear it before they do
 yeah
  [inaudible] jimmy johns after this
 when are we going?
 [inaudible]
 like when i wake up, 30 minutes after i wake up and then right before i go to bed
 yeah
 no clue, i have no clue what the direction of the study is. i am so confused
 [inaudible]all the hair
 [inaudible] is so bad. its like super curly though so i dont want to like [inaudible] put it up. maybe i can try the half [inaudible] again
 yeah i agree
 down
 i dont want to walk back up now but 
 ill never be disappointed with the spicy chicken sandwich. thank you
 what? oh delivery stops after 5, thats why i didnt get the jimmy johns until like [inaudible]
 [name]
 no he did
 does he realize that you did 
 yeah
 what do you mean?
  i know there is something about each question
 yeah
 what?
 [inaudible]
 netflix and chill 
 oh i [inaudible] out of the entire day but just now got me saying netflix and chill
 no
 theres probably no one right now
 i know. i do too, trust me [inaudible] tomorrow
 what?
 right, you also get up 5? also, i think with every single thing i do um 
 no like every hour. what?
 yeah, i can put those on, plus im [inaudible] anyway
 you dont have to if you dont want to 
 it does not make me uncomfortable. what?
 what? 
 what?
 what?
 what? you are a monk
 do you even look?
 no i said, you said you didnt mean to look
 what?
 what?
 come on, sorry [inaudible]
 sorry!
 if i what?
 [inaudible] put them away
 ill put them away
 what?
 what? what?
 [inaudible] what? what?
 is it? [inaudible] shit
 its like hiding some [inaudible]
 its okay
 its okay
 i hid it pretty well
 dont be, what?
 [inaudible] does it?
 that was disappointed?
 dont be
 no, its not enough
 [inaudible] yeah that one is fun
 might wanna play that one
 yeah 
 everyone [inaudible] theres got to be a reason
 im curious
 i am tell me
 i didnt know [inaudible] cause you dont want to tell me why you want to add it. why you want do add [name]
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 whats the song about? [inaudible]
 um i have to hear it first
 no
  yes
 what do you think?
 this song. its our theme song. did you ever add it?
 whats the title of that sorry im so sorry one?
 ok why isnt it showing up? i didnt put punctuation thats probably a factor. 
 why? dont you have like work to do?
 thats a good one
 what?
 [inaudible]
 no i do [inaudible] what are you doing?
 what is it?
 whats that?
 you be the girl
 [inaudible]
 what? i am
 yes [inaudible]
 what are you doing?
 maybe something not very sodey
 no because [inaudible]
 like the spinach on these [inaudible] looks really good im going to [inaudible]
 i have some of yours
 up to you seriously [inaudible]
 ill get like an orange one
 ill get some nachos
 yeah
 yeah and a lot
 yeah and a lot bigger
 no im good. what?
 you never know [inaudible]
 they are pretty good, not like the best but they are pretty good.
 yeah no, same
 i dont know
 im peachy fine
 im good
  no
 see i can get this
 what?
 okay
 what?
 im good
 i dont want anything! i ate a ton of candy, for real
 yeah
 yeah. dont worry [inaudible] i dont know 
 what?
 i dont remember
 yeah
 some people are really allergic to nuts
 thats his boss right there [inaudible]
 is it just us?
 why are you sorry
 well dont be 
 its not your fault
 what?
 why?
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible] or you do
 then she went back and said a stranger
 yeah, thats the closest ive ever been to someone uh been to a stranger
 yeah i was like.. what? well our finger is still here. what? 
 what?
 i bought them
 no they came in like a variety pack
  do i really look like that? im really sorry [inaudible]
 i hate my hairline [inaudible]
 look at my hairline
 im so much better. lets work on this. i dont want my hairline looking like that next time. i hate that i look like that. im sorry
 [inaudible]
 i dont know i thought so
 i dont know whats that its so weird
 lets try one more time
 that is better. sorry about me
 [inaudible] 
 i dont know what else to respond with
 im just trying to think of what to say
 you think so? [inaudible]
 i dont want steak and shake
  [inaudible] lets just clarify one thing. i really like meat, and like dont take that a dirty way but i really like meat
 chicken steak all of it. i like [inaudible] ribs are my favorite. i really like meat
 no
 it doesnt have to be really big burger it just has to [inaudible] 
 hardees is like expensive tho
 no
 you want to get hardees?
 me either [inaudible]
 ill go with you
 [inaudible] i drool sometimes sorry
 no, i wanna go
 ill go with you
 you wanna go by yourself
 ok i think ill clean a little. okay?
 what do they have? like i dont [inaudible] their specifics
 i mean you know the gist of what i like, dont you?
 i dont like that name
 um yeah
 yeah
 i dont usually put them on like those kind of burgers tho
 what kind of things do they have?
 should i look it up? so we are good?
 me maybe
 [inaudible] 
 i do really like ron
 i just, i cant fart normally
 at least i [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 no i need to learn how to wear them
 oh
 we got raccoons at mine in the middle of the day, its like
 i cant handle bees, im so over it. 
 oh i know they are so aggressive
 oh the big fuzzy ones the woodworm bees 
 they are so fluffy though
 no [inaudible] wasps are just assholes
 oh my gosh i know what you are talking about and they go 
 and they are always up under peoples houses
 yeah. yeah
 it was on discovery [inaudible]
 literally everything
 yeah 
 i love bats
 yeah but they eat all the bugs [inaudible] i love them
 they do
 yeah
 quiet, quiet
 stay away from [inaudible]
 theres like a ton of bagels
 they were all just standing there like
 bye guys!
 there is someone in the neighborhood with a donald trump sign in their yard
 i dont even know if it is recording
 yeah, im sure they care so much
 well, you are not in the research so i mean
 yeah, he wants to just bomb everyone
 i like huskies 
 oh did um did um did i ever tell you about how devin got this  theres smoke everywhere, anyways- did i tell you about the time devin got the shirt that i didnt want him to get. [inaudible] thats what it says. and he was like
 dont touch it
 should i send that to him?
 [inaudible] he is in denial. because he is not even talking to me right now so..
 what?
 mom
 yeah
 oh yeah. is she going to [inaudible]
 that would be cheesy
 yeah
 me too
 [singing]
 is he sleeping?
 yes, another hot summer.
 well no one knows its over here.
 what!? 
 heck yeah!
 well. oh my gosh
 oh yeah
 nope
 thank you.
 hey girl. do you know how to open this?
 [inaudible] oh okay, you dont have to screw them off you have to pop them off. [laughter]
 did we get the same thing or?
 because its so good.
 the best kind.
 really!? but its so good.
 see youi almost feel cool with my cuffs and my beer. [laughter]
 thats why i like that mine jingles. because im like, i know its there.
 [laughter] fireplaces are very important.
 [inaudible]
 be like, hey, come here!
 like, that doesnt work.
 hello. put a shirt back on him.
 were back!
 did you miss us?
 you look
 iron?
 i like him.
 everybody does you cant help it with that face.
 yeah i feel like, oh sexy, and then attract. ugly no.
 i remember we already had this conversation.
 i dont know why we had this conversation, but we did.
 i get used to that, or i will eventually.
 heck yeah. i wanted to nap first, but apparently im not getting one.
 i dont like air conditioners.
 i like it.
 yeah he is kind of cute.
 well if you say so.
 damn it all!
 but we only have three hours? two hours?
 i feel like im not close enough for this conversation.
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 true. okay, then just let it dry.
 [name]! lets go! i cant get my homework done. or i can just do, uh, extra next
 extra homework.
 this is for psychology though.
 [inaudible]points of extra boost.
 [singing]
 go pee.
 youre slightly green, they match your shirt!
 woohoo!
  hmm. okay, i thought maybe it was because, maybe it was slightly because of the nail polish remover, but my nails are fine. so yeah its the green. its the green.
 [inaudible]
 heck yes. so beautiful.
 i just want to squeeze them! its the only[inaudible]
 [singing]
 i hate history. ive never been good at it.
 id rather do science than history.
 what time are you taking your
 i said where are you in the house?
 where?
 where are you in the house? 
 like where are you located inside the house?
 okay. 
 you saying yeah, yeah. i know youre in the house. [laughter] okay, i need you to do me a favor. i need youis my computer on? 
 the desk thing? or is it on the stool? or on the couch? 
 okay. well can you do me a favor? can you move the computer to the table right by the couch and open it for me and turn it on. 
 how you turn it on? you push the button. its likeits the on button on it. 
 okay. there we go. the on button should be right in the middle of the top row. its likeits ??? is like literally right in the middle on the top of the keyboard. its roundits circles. two little circles. one is bigger than the other and you should push the bigger one.
 push theyep. push the biggest one. it should be onokay you got it. alright. from there, uh after it turns on, tell me when it turn on. just sit on the couch and wait for it to turn on. 
 alright. [inaudible speech] [subject talking to herself]. 
 what im doing right now [name]? i am on my way home so i can get my resume from the computer.
 i was like what?
 you want to go to wendys?
 all i could tell you was uhyou like shrimp?
 you like hot shrimp?
 theres this two dollar box at rallys.
 its pretty good and its worth the money. i was likei asked them before i ordered it, and it was like 12, 13 pieces. i opened it up and i was like this is more than 12 pieces, but okay. 
 its worth it. thats my shit.
 get the f*ck out of my face or we going to fight. [laughter] thats my shit. i used to hate that song. id be like baby turn that shit off his voice is so annoying. 
 i dont know itsis it [name] or its somebody? i dont know. ill figure it out soon. hell probably be listening to it tonight. ill text you, its blah blah blah blah blah.
 wow.
 yes.
 [inaudible]
 [laughter]
 [laughter]
 that many hoes
 yes. [laughter]
 march? or february?
 im going to put february?
 they can make that. itll just be tight.
 what the f*ck! he going to get cussed out.
 hello?
 she said where am i leaving?
 [laughing]
 she said where am i leaving? uh we was already coming by and we was there actually. we were just trying to see where you guys was at because i wanted to come by today, but we back home now so.
 she saidshe said, uh, she mighti think we are coming here tomorrow? i think.
 im not sure. one moment! [talking to someone outside]
 so.
 who was us?
 okay. when?
 uh, i am at school monday through thursday. friday is literally probably the best day, but if, you know, you wanted to go sooner, uhim trying to think i dont want this, im going to drive away from you tractor [speaking to herself about traffic]um mondays i have a 1 hour class at 3
 yeah. yeah.
 okay. do you knowdo you know any, uh, gynecologists around here?
 yeah because im trying to get me some doctors because you know i just turned 18 and my daddys like girl you cant turn to me no more.
 im like okay. [laughter]
 just for actualso i can be there patient.
 not to work for. just a patient.
 uh, i would prefer a female. id prefer
 okay.
 alright.
 alright, bye.
 [inaudible]
 is that mother****** really driving down the wrong way?
 hell no.
 hello?
 yes?
 uh, im waiting for my boyfriend.
 waiting for my boyfriend.
 seven.
 one.
 one.
 uh, good.
 you too.
 bye.
 [inaudible]
 so how excited are you for the pet?
 me too. you think they gave us real [inaudible] this time?
 touch it, touch it, do it!
 hi. im here for a test at 4
 [name]
 its right there on top.
 no it shouldnt be. its physiology.
 okay. 
 yeah i figured that would be unfair.
 okay yeah.
 you mean to actuallyif shes coordinating then you made her actually coordinate the things? so that theyre like together and accessible?
 so instead of just being a receptacle for a bunch of various pieces of paper, she actually, you know, serves a purpose?
 oh my god.
 oh jeez.
 yeah. im sorry youre on georgia time now. thats not how this works.
 oh my gosh. thats bad right?
 oh thats just moving thats not even like meeting goals. okay.
 oh dear.
 oh jeez.
 oh my gosh.
 im not saying that hell do that. im just saying i have my guard up because that happened to me.
 i feel like thats a thing with girls though. like, we see something that we know could be better, so we try to make it better. 
 yeah.
 yeah.
 what goes through my head.
 well not only that, but like you think the stories can change. thats huge. like, not everybody could do that.
 i really dont want to talk to [name] about this all day now, but i feel like ive dug my damn grave. 
 theyre goingthey just yell at you for everything. 
 youre just breaking all the rules today.
 i tried to hide mine, and when it washed off, so i wont do it again. kind of pissed me off, though. 
 have fun at work. 
 smelling like coffee. 
 talk to you later. 
 ill walk my ass here.
 country boy [name] whos you know like concerned with being such a gentlemen.  
 and messing around all, you know. its just hes not like that.
 yes, i dont know what happened. but its not like
 but like that. you know thats just different. 
 yes. i dont know. but.
 i have to check my phoneits been going off all day today.
 my friend [name] has been talking about hanging out later. cause theres a thing at the umm campus center that i talked to him about. its. theres a drag show and their having a like dance afterwards. and i thought it would be fun to go so i asked somebody who i knew would go with me. 
 and he was like yea sure i might go.
 no
 no not at all. hes just, he comes from, ok so he has eight brothers and sisters. 
 he comes from a family of nine.
 lafeyette. 
 yes
 he is at purdue.
 yes
 oh he comes down every once in a while.
 and to uepue as he calls it. he has friends here and stuff. and so he ya, he has like nine siblings.
 so he up for just about anything, like anything is fun. hes really
 easy to please
 yes, so like, i mean somebody i can talk to about absolutely nothing. hell tell me stories for like hours on end. 
 and theyre just about nothing and theyre hilarious but he like has his pilots license and he was telling me he was flying into south bend regional airport.
 and he accidentally called it notre dame airport, and he got like reamed by the guy over the like thingy yelling at him its not south its not notre dame airport. and he said, he was telling me about the different airport and stuff, and apparently south bend is a class c which means like you dont mess around there. you have to be extremely professional so he
 like really got in trouble.
 yes
 yes, yes, yes, and i was like yes he was talk, he was telling me that story, and i was like you know elkhart is like half an hour from south bend from notre dame. and he was like are you kidding me. 
 like he couldnt make that like connection so i explained it but he. i feel like you guys would think that he was, you would think he was gay, and dad would think he was a nerd.
 yes. he has kind of a high pitched voice, but hes not gay. i mean hes not he just has a higher voice. but like hes studying aerospace engineering.
 so hes studying to be a rocket scientist. 
 so hes like super smart.
 super smart. we have talks about calculus sometimes, and partial derivatives. we had an entire conversation about partial derivatives that was fun.
 um, social networking. because he was down in i-, at iupui, like i have friends at purdue, and when he saw we had mutual friends and he was like hey do i know you? i was like no i dont go to purdue. but, so i dont know.
 yes. but no when he gets bored and he has nothing to do.
 this is 65-south and thats 65-north. 70 is
 ok.
 no one is thats rare. 
 yea you would think he was gay. 
 but hes short so its kind of funny. 
 no hes like 58.
 but i can make fun of him for his height because if i wear my combat boots im taller. apparently thats not nice.
 that im taller in my combat boots. 
 cause they give me height.
 yes
 he doesnt usually stay, he comes down for the day and just hangs out around indy. 
 i dont know probably go back. its only like an hour. 
 yes. but no he just [inaudible]
 really
 i dont know. 
 what is it?
 what?
 i named it mini me. 
 thats it thats what im a call it mini me.
 im calling it mini me.
 oh my goodness, i hate your phone case  what is it dad?
 please? please?
  four? 
 two hundred?
 i feel like your yanking my chain a little bit but not that much.
 yes
 i got up at four so.
 cause the dang fire alarm went off. 
 at four in the morning. 
 yes its back. 
 no shoes? 
 no flip flops oh. 
 dad. dad. ive heard that more than once in my life. its fine
 right
 were you still drunk?
 and they look at you naked. 
 lets follow the drunk guy.
 i have a knot right there.
 yes its right there.
 no i have a knot right there and it hurts. ive had it for a week. do you feel that. 
 thats the knot. 
 what. do you think i was nonchalant like.
 i dont either. i guess he just doesnt want us to come home right now.
 thank you. i know the struggle. you should see me in lab when i have to do that.
 thats what i do. i look ok and keep my face like that because everybody else has the same thing like for [inaudible] or [name] will say do one of these. one time [name] just got done here and almost got my glasses off of my face. thanks youre so gentle. 
 lab partner. yea
 no we didnt have lab partners in chem 101, but 
 oh so we work together too. i see [name]
 all the time. yes we work. i told you about [name].
 yes we work together, we have chemistry lab together. we have bio lab together. we have bio lecture together. so we talk about bio all the time. like. we have ressertation together. we always.
 nope. 
 [name2]
 [name] is. 
 alright. i need to brush my teeth. ive told you about [name]. you probably just dont know.
 yes hes so much fun.
 yes. because we name all our
 yes
 when did she do it?
 she didnt say. 
 yes
 deleted?
 oh you donated. i thought you said deleted and i was like.
 thank you for doing that. i talked to her the other day. shes sending us something in the mail. 
 i dont know. but she texted me and was like hey you sent me your address a month ago, can you send it to me again? and i said, yes sure. i didnt think twice about it before but now im like why does she want our address? why is she sending it to our home address, not to our one indy but our home address.
 well
 she texted me last night that the new place she works for told her that she has to wear a scarf over her head because 
 your golfing motion. i think thats what gets me.
 you randomly like. i know im doing something. mom, mom, mom, mom, is it alright if i have this at the table? those are the rules.
 i have to. im getting paid for this.
 full charge?
 i have [inaudible]
 yes you did.
 its in your right hand. mom just send it to me.
 just send it to me.
 but mom youre using data so therefore it is going to take battery.
 yes
 even after you ate that pizza today? are you gonna be able to eat a tenderloin?
 youre gonna be able to eat all that tenderloin.
 it was a tenderloin dinner.
 i yes. have you been running again? no?
 [inaudible]
 cant you, like, put something on it when you sit?
  yes i know. i mean its getting to the point where you almost can.
 wheres the one that youre going to?
 they did the earth [inaudible] in [city] last year.
 but remember i have that weird thing with my joints. so for me. my knees are just about as bad as aunt kimmys
 did she.
 yea, what can you do about it though? 
 thats fine
 did you learn about uncle [name].
 the
 yes
 aww
 thanks
 ok. ok. ok.
 im gonna put my stuff down.
 [laughing] your fishing rod?
 im glad you had fun.
 i was worried you were gonna think they were weird.
 thats what ive grown up around and so like
 yes you can go straight.
 umm. you can go straight until. that was new york. 
 yes 
 it should yes.
 umm
 left.
 yes were fine i can see iupui from here. like so people dont understand, like, why i like talk and stuff as much as i do. its like if only you knew my family. like
 yes
 thats how my family is. like usually if theyre like making fun of you or like giving you shit, its a good thing.
 but some people take it the wrong way you know. like they feel like
 yes exactly. like okay so my ex got a nickname from my dad, but it was not a good one. 
 his name was [name] and my dad called him jo-jo cause he knew it pissed me off.
 cause hed be like is jo-jo coming over? like he would say it like condescendingly. so like i can always tell if my dad doesnt like somebody cause hell be kind of a dick. so thats usually my gear. if my dads a dick, not funny, but like a dick. you can bet he doesnt like you. cause my dad will like make fun of you and like be a little shit head, but if hes a dick, no.  thats a flat no. my dads a very direct person.
 hes hard isnt he?
 [laughing] yes
 i mean
 my mom is, my moms funny. 
 my moms there. she has homework to do so she might not be like box cutting with us but.
 my uncle has to put stuff together for work. and he like has to do a thousand units by x date. and he needs like boxes broken down and all this.
 he was gonna like ask the boy scouts and stuff like to help him for volunteer hours but he wasnt allowed to because since theyre using box cutters it makes him liable.
 like and if a little kid cut their hand
 i do. its in my apartment.
 well yes
 but yes thats part of my family. and then. the two, three people on my dads side that werent there were my aunt [name] who is at home with my uncles dogs. and shes funny. 
 her mom has dementia
 yes and she like. my aunt [name] is kind of an alcoholic. like her. her drink of choice is usually sugar free red bull and vodka. 
 or wine until she has wine mouth. and
 wait wrong street.
 one more. here. what was i saying about? how are you in shorts? 
 oh my god. youre a dumb ass.
 i did or you did?
 ok. ive had like a deep tissue massage before to try and get those out and the lady was like drink plenty of water. i drank my weight in water so i peed like all day. 
 and i still woke up the next morning.
 you dont.
 yes cause it doesnt hydrate you. it just goes straight through you. i hate how soft your skin is like it makes me feel like a dry old man, and youre like a little baby. 
 im sorry. 
 i thought so too. thats why i stopped.
 im sorry.
 just knock everything over.
 no. dont do that.
 no. 
 oh god. thats not good. i totally wanna see [inaudible]. i wanna see the damage. oh. your back. oh my god.
 oh my god your back. 
 i recommend wearing your shirt at the gym. 
 what so everyone can see that?
 oh my goodness.
 [inaudible]
 no they would know whats going on. no. okay so [name] and her little booty call 
 he gripped her back and ripped skin. she showed me this morning and its like a giant bruise and you can tell like where it bled.
 what?
 no.
 no.
 he literally just like did that.
 she had a bruise on her lower lip 
 no it was black and blue.
 her lips were blue. it looked like a pen exploded. it looks so bad.
 but hes told her like hes had like a lot of girls at his apartment.
 yea. so 
 i dont know. 
 she really likes him but
 i call him her booty call because
 well then hes like i really like you and dont wanna have sex with you until we do stuff. its like. 
 oh im sorry.
 no. no. i dont know. i dont know how i feel about it. like
 i dont like him.
 nope
 no. like he was like talking, he didnt really talk. and for me thats always a red flag because if this is your like girlfriend. theyre dating now. if its your girlfriends best friend, you gotta win that bitch over.  
 like if you wanna be in her life, i have to like you. 
 i dont know what do you wanna
 really?
 ok.
 you wanna meet her?
 yes
 i dont know.
 no
 you can go ahead shell just laugh. you can see my chair.
 you can go see my other room. where i live. i dont know. yea i told [name] that i didnt get a good feeling, like it was a weird vibe.
 well you know. ok. so i was like laying up in her in [name]s room. her bed is like low like this and it on like the window side. so it faces like this. 
 and my bed is over here like this, and its up and lofted. like when someone walks in the door i can see them but they cant see me. cause im up that high. so like ill notice you before you notice me. like it just looks like a blanket pile like from down the floor.   
 working in june because ill be back like the last three weeks of may. and during that time ill be looking somewhere else where i can make a little bit more. cause i was telling mom like somedays are great and everything but shes so all over the place that i that i cant do it. you know? she just hired someone new again like.
 yes
 but yea.
 i know dad but im just i dont know. i dont know if i wanna be there anymore because of just like policies they have and stuff. and shes constantly hiring new people. like new people that dont know anything about new product. which is annoying because it then. you know. it do us any favors because theyre trying to learn. its bad enough when it was two people that were still learning.
 but [name] kinda knew where stuff was or atleast she could defer someone else you know. she knows that technique.  like if i dont know ill say what i know and ask someone else. you know that kind of thing. but. i dont know. well see what happens when i go back. remember [name] from college on the travel team?
 you really liked her dad. he was bald.
 ok well thats who [name] just hired.
 this girls dumber than a box of rocks. and
 well i get that but like she. [name] was just telling me like the other day at work she had her sunglasses on like the entire day and all this stuff  and.
 no. [name] did.
 yes. and its like that doesnt look good. like youre not.
 yes
 i know
 yes im fine. thank you.
 no im fine.
 hes so stubborn about that [inaudible]. 
 yes. but thats like that bad. ive tried to tell him and it works so well. and then his excuse is always when they went in and
 did his bypass. they messed something up.
 yes. the doctor [inaudible]. 
 i have no idea. i dont think its far because when [name] was going to go out to oregon, she was thinking about leaving her car at my apartment and taking a cab to the airport so she didnt have to drive her car. 
 yes they broke up before she went like she thought about. like they broke up after she bought her ticket but like i really dont know how to explain it. but it was enough time for her to refund it so she refunded it, and went to chicago with her sister instead. 
 [inaudible] i mean she was pretty mad but shes ok. shes excited she gets to come home. 
 yea. we hung out over winter break it was awesome.
 yea. i just dont think [name] would let us do that. 
 but i mean when [name] and i work together we get stuff done. we also stand around and talk too so sometimes. when there arent customers around im not gonna stand around and ignore her like shes not there... 
 its supposed to be really warm [inaudible]
 yeah. oh no. oh shit.
 its really creepy. i mean we would like get in your car and it would be, like hot.
 [laughing]
 i know. there you go babe, my purse is on the floor.
 wow watch out.
 that would be pretty terrible
 mhm. 
 im so hot.
 babe youre so hot
 are you serious? 
 hi.
 in bed.
 that was my moms best friends cousin.
 shes just one of the dental hygienist that works there.
 yeah
 i started out like shadowing her and stuff and she taught me how to do
 yeah, and so like, then i was like
 she was like, yeah its a really good school.
 she liked it, but its changed so much since she went there. so it was just kind of like, jeez.
 yeah. because when i went to [location, i was talking to this couple from new york, and like i told them where i went to school and they were like, whats that? you know, like, people dont know.
 really?
 i did not plan on going here. 
 this was like my last choice.
 i honestly like it.
 right. its not really the party scene. because when i go to iu im like, this is neat. i love it here.
 yeah. its just kind of likeits unnecessary, like because im going to school for tcem and like why would i go there just because i like it, when iupui has like the right setting for my degree.
 i would end up transferring here.
 yeah.
 yeah.
 yeah.
 but yeah a lot of people transfer here to iu.
 yeah. its kind of like back and forth because the credits transfer easily.
 yeah. i can see that.
 yeah. you can go there for elementary educationlike really.
 probably a lot.
 do you know how many people i know right now who are in elementary education, like, so many.
 there was a girl who was ashe was a tcem degree and she just told me like, the other day in math that she was switching to elementary education and im likefirst of all this girl is probably worse than me at math and she is going to have to take more math. and shes like im never even going to pass this and im like
 right.
 really though like
 thats like what they are teaching.
 wow.
 yeah thats kind of your own fault.
 shit. you just have to pay attention. 
 wow that is, i would have been really mad at myself.
 thats what i felt abouti forget what it is called, but i was just pissed off at my own self for wasting my own time.
 yeah that sucks.
 thats the worst when you are mad at yourself, because what are you going to do with yourself? beat yourself up? literally are you going to punch yourself in the face? no, but i want to.
 that might help you out a little. hey it happens so.
 that thing is so convenient.
 no i mean whole thing in itself.
 i just mean like chopping rice.
 really its not that big of a deal. no my mom has one though, but its like you push down on it and i chops it.
 oh really?
 aw thats sweet.
 yeah.
 right.
 clearly. actually, thank you so much.
 yeah. 
 yeah, youre like cool.
 yeah. um, this thing always makes me look like a big retard
 so like i get this card
 oh it sits on top. can you not yell at me? god
 no i dont fucking fuck with this tinsel shit for the kitchen.
 give me a damn break. youre so mean.
 well i dont fucking care about you or your pans. i didnt mean to be that angry about it honestly.
 i dont know. what do we need?
 eggs, bacon, toast and yogurt.
 when?
 i thought you said those would last?
 oh.
 um
 (sentence starts before recording) xxxx drive. she has my shoes, if i cant walk there then she is not getting them.
 youre right.
 why?
 thats a terrible excuse [name]. terrible excuse. so i got like, four hours of sleep. like i had a bunch of caffeine yesterday, and i also slept until like 9 yesterday morning. or 9
 puking. like i got, i woke up early, and when i woke up i started throwing up because my head hurt so bad. well you know, then like i just didnt go to morning classes, because of that.
 oh my gosh, look at this wonderful-ness that i bought.
 i did do the thing. and i bought the clean version, instead of saying some things it has animal noises.
 its not really clean, it just cracks me up i listened to it the whole way and i was just laughing, and [name] is just like thats not clean, it just has animal noises.
 it just made me laugh. and i was actually talking about, you know like all of this, this right here?
 i wonder if hed like this one.
 and i like the middle of this one. when she sings out her heart. that the dancing [inaudible]
 i dont even have to take calculus.
 oh by the way guys i am not, woah. thats intense. did you know they all had 7 percent on these?
 come on light
 i want to go to campus center
 what are you doing?
 will you go get those cookies out of the fridge and give me one?
 yeah.
 you can have the other one.
 thanks.
 oh, thank you!
 you do?
 you always press on my hip and it hurts really bad when you do that thing, when you put all that pressure right on my joint.
 where stuff attaches.
 yeah it hurts
 yeah. i believethe ischium. you can sit here if you want.
 yeah that stuffs pretty good. not a lot of stems in it.
 [name] left her scale and she said shes coming back to get it later. i told her workaholics is on at ten and we will be watching it so[inaudible]
 no not really
 yeah
 chillaking, chilling 
 chilling and relaxing, chillaxing
 i attempted to figure it out
 basically they had to charge my uh my debit card for the price which was about seven or eight bucks then they reimburse me 
 it, it was weird
 i dont know they couldnt give it away for me i think
 but it should charge
 oh my charges fairly quickly without it so
 you might need a new kindle who knows, they dont do very well i dont know why
 geisha. geishas are not prostitutes
 i bought them theyre as good as home made
 theyre not really salty but theyre hard life savers
 im still thinking demons
 some amazing person overall really awesome why?
 i will totally go if you get free tickets or discounted tickets
 i will, i swear to god if you like buy two tickets and we go i will love you forever 
 i, i dont have my ipod with me but like i mean shes been through cutting, shes been through depression
  and her songs are like i think shes skyscraper, im pretty sure demi lavabo sings skyscraper and so she uh she just sings about like, it hurt me but i can im better now so shes shes one of my role models i guess 
 so if, i would love to go to one of her concerts and shes got a beautiful voice too, its not like 
 no, no shes gotten some happier 
 making a new harry potter film, so excited
 and [name] would do that. [name]
 different [name]. yes he would still do that, yeah i know him
 really? why?
 yeah
 not bad
 black market? black market website making?
 thats not bad
 i wouldnt be able to do that, i would just
 thats good
 what?
 you know how it was
 to what purpose?
 i have no clue what that is im sorry
 oh is that like you take like pictures of like recipes and stuff and like send it to someone
 and you havent said the social media website im on all the time, you havent said it 
 and i like wonder if you even know it	
 its not that
 nope
 tumblr 
 you havent? aww thats no fun, im like on it twenty four seven sadly, i have no life
 hey ive got like over a thousand followers on my personal so i mean 
 its not that 
 its awesome
  everyones getting mad at me because im like, i promise im not in the story im writing and like i havent updated since november and there like a back of all my dye  
 oh you really do that
 oh my god
 why?
 how can you do that at the same time?
 go to every single house
 oh my god thats crazy
 yeah thats true
 well there some great shirts, also
 thats funny
 see above, theyre not directly for a minuet at time these are done, how to check for done, pull leaves from close to the center of leaf, if the leaf comes off easily the artichokes are done if there is resistance continue cooking checking [inaudible]. so i mean ive always done it an inch of water not just a fourth of an inch 
 yeah, well i do half an inch if youre doing two at the same time 
 oh this one has um half inch water
 ive been on three different websites
 ok
 well here come the chart blockers, how do i unsearch um
 oh i just typed artichoke
 yeah um
 not stove
 that says stove
 but you dont do it for twenty minuets 
 well its interesting to see how they are fixing the water so 
 what?
 i dont like a lot of lettuce but you can
 these commercials are like, they are so stupid but they are really funny because i used to jump to conclusions and like make leaps and bounds and thats the exact same process that i would do sadly. i cannot find one on all recipes
 i cannot find one on all recipes, for microwave
 there were only two, ill go look at them again because one had garlic 
 the one with garlic has three um things thats really [mumbling] it says cut slices of butter on garlic and artichoke leaves like put them inside, im not sure i like that 
 um this is the exact same recipe, why, why would you post the same recipe twice that is pointless its the exact same freaking recipe 
 yeah its literally the exact same instructions, okay, see i would probably just i dont know we are going to be putting butter and dipping them in butter so i mean why would we need to put butter
 what?
 really?
 oh yeah it is nine, i didnt know that was the last episode
 are they back in the prison? its another prison, what i dont understand is this a flashback?
 it is
 this is a flashback, what? i dont understand mom! hershel is alive in this episode, hes i saw him on the screen, carols still in the group with tierce, they are in the prison
 they either airing the wrong episode, okay here is a flashback, it was it was a flashback ricks just going insane again, hes covered in blood jesus christ whats going on, yeah ricks just gone again
 what?
 i cant
 she never did say what happening to the baby
 and that was sort of the story
 i dont know 
 i dont know 
 i dont know 
 yeah
 yeah. awww
 [name] [speaking to pet]
 come here.
 see. i keep forgetting its in there.
 they dont think im the lamest person everare you hungry?
 do you want me to make you a taco or some sausage?
 or eggs?
 are you shaving?
 i offered to make you a sandwich.
 i was going to make you food, but i didnt know if you were hungry or not.
 [inaudible] this time
 [inaudible]
 yes. 
 no this ones sad. dont watch this one. dont watch it.
 make it go away.
 what?
 my moms bringing the insurance card right now.
 you too. [speaking on the phone]
 they call me like 10 times a day. asking me the same questions.
 [name]s like well we shouldnt have to pay and im like well these are for last month. 
 [name] found out today.
 about the apartment.
 her uncle or her god father and she texted me and i was like, im not talking to her. [name]s like well like me deal with it. if she had kept her end of the bargain and hadnt lied to us that she could pay bills we wouldnt have had a problem.
 well she had papers drawn up too from [name].
 general manager of [place].
 proving that she could pay. when in fact, she started giving away all her shifts and then lost her shifts. i was just thinking, like, she signed us a contract too. she bailed.
 well she signed the lease. 
 yeah.
 and the thing is, like yeah you left, but you had signed a lease saying that you were going to stay all 12 months. 
 thats why we dont feel bad because shes bragging to everyone that she knows that she doesnt owe us anything that she didnt even pay her rent, but she got to live there for free basically. like she went and was, like, bragging about that to [name]s friends. 
 no.
 and i dont feel bad because, we told, like i saved her. [name] wanted to kick her out, but i told him, look we need to at least find a roommate before we kick her out and we have to make her think that its her idea, otherwise it can blow up in our face. well next day shes like, well i cant do this. i never have any money. and im like, i dont know how. you never give us money. 
 its just kind of humiliating you know?
 its just still kind of humiliating because its like.
 [name] and [name] are they only ones that know on my side.
 i mean i almost got arrested over this.
 luckily i had [name]. my academic probation person.
 i think it was [name]s he left it though. when you got your cook set did you get the pancake flipper?
 flapjack flipping pan.
 did you get a sauce pan?
 this is the kind of thing i have.
 comes in purple bay berry
 the green, blue, black, and red. whats so special about a keurig mug?
 oh, it fits under all of their thing a ma jigs
 i started feeling less bad about [name] because she lied to us in the first place telling us she could afford it. when in fact she lied about how much she made. is that you? 
 a bunch of my [inaudible] got ruined in the car. 
 10 bucks
 you could go to [place] theirs are six
 [place] has a lot of those cute like neon shorts that she likes.
 for 5 bucks
 and youre wearing like a sheer belly shirt
 i about walked right by you.
 itsyeah.
 okay why is it like chilly out, this is stupid.
 [inaudible]are they all the same?
 oh. usually its like the abcd s***. whatever.
 ive had to work. i started working at scottys this week and they have me 11
 ok, so which ones are you having trouble with?
 yeah.
 um, ok well with thesorry [inaudible]you raise everything, like to that power so you already did that.
 okay, umthats a very good question. are there any examples where it shows how to do that with multiple ones?
 well i know whenever  it was one[inaudible]where there was like multiple steps
 relationships tend to fail so usually, because all they care about is like are we or arent we? whatever you are just be it. i donti dont know. like dont stress about it.
 because hes giving you mixed signals and thats different. thats not.
 right. no and that makes sense. but its like, because we are obsessed with relationship status is why. like theres no fucking use for that.
 thats a stupid fucking name. sounds like chia.
 hi how are you?
 like i really want lunch, but its so early. they were ok, i dont like pickles, [inaudible] uh ok, i dont like beer though. 
 yeah weve been trying different stuff every day. and new peeps. ive never eaten there before so. 
 um, hey you know what? the other day i spilled sauce all over someones plate so its alright.
 do you guys just tally how many times you
 right. 
 okay.
 i goti got, uh, mugged.
 yeah, they took my phone, cause i they had myi dont carry a purselike my phone had a case on it that had like my uh, id and my license, my bank card, and my jag tag for school. and it had all of them in the back of the case and they took that. took my boyfriends wallet. he didnt have anything in it except his id and like his emt certs and firefighter stuff and everything so. i mean they didnt get shit for it so. its not like you can use a phone thats stolen because you cant activate it, but whatever so. i just dont care to pay for a new one right now.
 hanging out. i got like three tables over there so i really need to go.
 if youre done with that and those plates i can get them out of your way. if youre still munching thats cool too. so how was it your first time?
 not that first time. im talking about the burger.
 are you still working on yours?
 oh youre done? are you sure?
 you dont want a box or anything? okay. alright, um, how are you guys doing the checks? all together or all separate?
 okay ill have those printed out for you.
 oh did you already get 133s check out table?
 err 132s.
 its being used for research.
 this is a little, um it records five percent of what is said. it is for a research study.
 but, you can always delete something. 
 yeah, you can go through it later.
 um, it just depends. usually i park at indiana avenue and walk there. so probably about, its almost half a mile. 
 so, but it saves money. a parking permit is like $140 a semester. 
 yeah. and i even calculated it out and its cheaper to just park in the parking garage.
 which is connected to my one class the whole entire time. so, you know, if its chilly ill probably park in there. but well see. 
 it lets you park several different places.
 but um because i only have one class, you know, its not super worth it. and like.
 one class down there.
 yeah, its only on monday and wednesday. um, its only an hour and fifteen minutes so i mean. and the parking garage is connected to it by like the little gerbil tunnel... 
 it is [inaudible].
 it is, yeah.
 okay.
 bye.
 okay.
 okay.
 okay. 
 thank you very much.
 okay.
 okay, 250?
 dollars. 
 dont forget [inaudible] at 3
 youre welcome.
 [laughs.]
 okay.
 okay.
 [inaudible] retention and total claim and that would be output?
 okay. is that usually a certain amount?
 okay.
 okay, so company goes in the second blank?
 [inaudible]
 and then you put the [inaudible]
 okay. and then personal liability, those will all be written on the [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 okay. [inaudible]
 pay plan?
 okay, so you would put the
 which is the co-policy?
 okay.
 okay, am i doing this right?
 okay.
 okay.
 okay. no payment method?
 no billing account number [inaudible].
 okay, so no payment then?
 it is cold.
 im doing good, other than cold. you alright?
 thank you! 
 yeah, im just pulling it out. 
 thanks. it reminds me of warmer, warmer times.
 you have a new blue chair?
 oh wow, youll have to show me that.
 you know, i have a friend who is a doctor and he looked at it for me and he said to wait a little while before i went in to see if i got better, and it started to get better! so i dont, im guessing probably not.
 probably.
 but its still sore, but, you know it seems to be getting better. 
 i did.
 okay, well go get your pjs on and ill come watch.
 then stop acting like youre doing it. 
 stop acting like it. [inaudible]. okay so you know what a [inaudible] is?
 like, you know, [inaudible].
 no? hm.
 [inaudible] in a second. [inaudible] is tired and in a mood. you should be. um. hm. [inaudible] 
 you do? okay. 
 you do? well where is it? 
 under my foot? i dont think so, i dont see it. it is? where? 
 is it? im not sure.
 okay. accepted, accomplished, aggravated, annoyed. 
 [inaudible].
 seriously? youre kicking her though.
 okay, go to the bathroom. wait until she goes. [inaudible]
 youre going to fall down! 
 you can go to the bathroom. you go on the toilet. okay, i trust you. 
 you didnt did you? [inaudible].
 oh, you did? okay. did you go number one? number two? no, im kidding. im just teasing. 
 i do! because i trust you. should i trust you? should i believe you? 
 should i believe you?
 i saw you spit out your toothpaste, but i didnt see you go to the bathroom. well, i mightve missed something. 
 you were like, just like that?
 [laughs] 
 is it? [laughs]
 your slippers? [sings]
 [praying] [inaudible] wife and stepfather, sister [inaudible] so i came to you, father [inaudible] become closer to you like never before. [inaudible] so hard, father, so i pray to you. i look to you for comfort. [inaudible]
 hello.
 good.
 [inaudible]
 its chilly.
 twelve hours.
 yeah. 
 so, tomorrow do you need me?
 okay.
 yeah, i do. [inaudible].
 you should make chocolate milk in the cereal.


 hey, im going to go [inaudible] and then when i come back mind if i did it for you?
 okay. hey! [inaudible]
 what?
 [inaudible] [sings]
 okay. youre a sweet little boy, yes, aw. you could have stayed there. you could have stayed there. oops. okay. what does this say on here? mm okay. hello, im [subject name]. im a tourism, conventions and event management major. im currently [inaudible] which will allow me to [inaudible].
 probably.
 hes doing it again, yeah. are you doing it? good boy.
 yeah, yeah um right now i do school part time and then i also work part time, about twelve hours a week. so normally [inaudible]
 so because it ended up, like it took up like a lot of space on a business card to put all of that so it was just like. but.
 that is awesome.
 [inaudible]
 [laughs] youre welcome.
 were not going to be in my bedroom together. okay, well, go talk to dad. i love you. bye.  
 [sings with music.]
 whats wrong? whats the matter piggy-boo?
 piggy-boo
 my phone? does this interest you? you want this?...noi love you. youre my piggy. looky what i got. piggy boo. [inaudible]daddy can you get her a blanky for the [inaudible]
 oh. . . now she just wants to follow youi thinkshe saw youshe saw you walk out and she was like, wha, what? oh look [inaudible]
 ope that was my lip[kiss]
 ok. the blanky is supposed to be for your feet goofballcan i help you?...you can get upwhere are you going now? why do you keep moving? he wants her but why you keep moving around?
 you wanna tell daddy something? go to daddy, you can
 can you sit like a big girl on the couch?...take thatput that, dont throw that at mommys face 
 ha-ha-ha
 say bee boo bee boo bee
 bee boo boo bop
 what? im not going
 who?
 is that a drag queen?
 shes like abnormally tan
 she was on total defense? 
 this season?
 no i dont [laugh][name] as much as i love playing with you, do you mind? [inaudible] has to go take a pee
 [singing along with radio]
 whose truck?
 oh
 no
 mmhmm
 good.
 shes good. shes big
 shesi dont know if id say walking. she took one step yesterday, and i was just like, if you could just take a few more, you would know you can do it. but she stands up, and shell stand without holding anything and shell just drink a bottle and stands up. im like, you can, you can walk. you just choose not to. shes just, shes just not good. [chuckle]
 umits finethethe front part of it thats the crackedon the front part of it. that piece like the other day it like, i dont know what it did. it just like fell down right here, like the whole thing its cracked all the way through, so i had to like put it back up there. i heard a noise and i was like, what the heck is that? it was part of my car
 yea i dont know, i think i hit a pothole
 good songhey is that you?
 [inaudible]
 thats your name! 
 [name], is that today?
 awesome!
 hi.
 its a good song.
 everydaywere just like, [name3]
 dont worry about it. its not creepy.
 it said it was going to be, and then
 sorry, were singing
 are we not allowed to use our notes?
 i was going to saylike i dont know them
 can you get rid of that little bar right there?...its at the bottom and i cant see at all
 i was going to do that tooumcan you register without buying a shirt? or can you just show up? or can you just show up in pink?
 ok [laughing]
 yea, and then are we, you said we are meeting by the dumb thing that looks like a pyramid?
 splashing. splashing babyooh, ooh, ooh [ laughing] is that wee? youre making messes. [laughing] youre lucky he just leftare you allowed to play with cups? lets not play with cups, okay? put the cups downokaylets not put more cups of water out?
 you okay? its okay
 breathbreathyoure okayits okay. dont drink the bubbly watergood job big girl! good job[clapping] good job my princess1, 21, 2hi
 1, 2, princess 3. hi, smile! smile!
 smile
 hey, hey, hey, uh, uh, no upset babies. we dont do upset babiessmile, only happy babies. i like happy babies, tell your tubby tub. since we like tubby tub.
 ooh, i know. i do. i do. i know. i know. no. i know its a rough life! youre a little baby princess. getting everybody to take care of you. it sucks. it sucksi know. i knoweverybody wants to give attention to you, and give you loves. and mommy making you cleanall so roughyea okay youre grabbing onto me. youre going to have to wait until youre clean to get out of the tubby
 can you see what we are doing right now? i knowyoure throwing a temper tantrumthe sooner, hey. the sooner you let me wash you, the sooner we get out of the tubbiesbut you got to cooperate
 i knowbut we love our tubby times. we love our tubby timesyou do. sit down. youre only [inaudible]youre not pooping in tubby times i tell youyoure going to have to sit back baby girl, im sorryim sorry, but youre going to have to sit down. i knowoh my goodness, be careful
 sit down. hey, hey. you have to sit. it will be over, sit down. you stay still then. i know. i know. i know baby. its okay. look. peek-a-boo. peek-a-booyou dont like that? okay, so i tried peek-a-boo, its okay. its not that badits not. no, its notit is not that bad. its not that bad, [name]. okay ready, we are going to wash body, okay here we gowe are going to wash your body and then youre done, okay? kiss your face? face?
 i know, i know. why are you so upset? you love tubby time. i dont understand what is making you so upset
 thank god[name] what do you got there?
 ah
 i know
 thats so cutenext time you should be like, this was me, and probably youand this is what you will be. and you should hold it the right way. take a picture of yourself holding it the right way. this is what you are and this is what you will bei have a picture of the leg on melookin my shoe
 [laughing] this is what happened before, this is [name3] before your class
 hey, you know what time it is? its 9 oclock. you know what that means?
 i know. i know. are you cool babe? are you cool babe? are you cool babe? are you in position? are you making a habit right now? i think you areyoure pooping
 ahhbabe dont doahh
 shh. close your eyes sweet heart
 you have poops? you want pushy? you have a wide bootywhite booty babyready go to bed? can i change your dipy? put you to bed? can i change your butt? is that like a thing i can do?...come herecan i have this?
 i texted [name] earlier and told him to come see us. i texted him like two hours ago, and he just now responded. hes like, oh i sent him a picture of me, you, and [name2], and hes said, oh, you guys are silly im like, thats it?  thats all youre going to say to me? okay, bitch
 who says silly?
 get sillysay it [laughing]
 [laughing] it doesntwhats the point?
 which is my point[laughing]
 probably. anyone who follows us, or the three of us
 [name4]
 [laughing] youre other personalitydo you have other, whats your other personalitys name?
 my kind of name
 i had a namea name
 no it was when i was at purdue, we went around and named our drunk, when we were drunk we named our drunk personalitiesand i dont remember what mine was
 i was good to myself
 i, see like drunk victoria was really nice to sober victoria, and sober victoria was really nicesober victoria 
 sober victoria came prepared for drunk victoria, and then i would like, i would be like, if like i would come back to my room i would have like my pretzels and like my drinks and stuff set out for me, and i would be like, goddamn it sober victoria is so good to me.
 that was my life. i, like, had my pad all ready. i had my drinks all ready
 its justyeai guess
 you have manic allison
 manic allison is
 well maybe you shouldnt stay up so late, like bitch
 mollyl-o-l
 miley
 patsy
 there is no patsy[laughing]
 patricia
 [laughing]i rememberim so sorry, patricia.
 yea
 you just be candy applecandy applesfor your boobs
 [inaudible]
 bow bow bow
 yea, yea, yea, uh
 bababa
 dada. dada.
 hi, [name]no, dont do thatlook at you. youre being a good listener today
 you whining? are you whining? hey
 i was texting [name], and she finally got a day off
 yea it does, [inaudible]you work a couple days, and then you get a day offlike it is at school
 [laughing]
 [laughing] was that silly daddy?
 no.
 no.
 ah. castle.
 [pft] dont talk about her boobies that way
 come here
 can i see your head?
 ope, ope, ope
 ope, hi.
 they both
 yea
 mmhmm
 [laughing] she got a donk.
 including you?
 mmmyou cant have that
 that hair?
 [inaudible] more attracted at me
 yes, bitch. [name], daddys a bitch
 you know mommy does not
 mommy does [inaudible]
 [noise]
 this isnt mine
 i was like, why is this closed?
 the vanilla coconut
 what? theres food in there
 look i have fucking 10 minutes left of this goddamn episode. i want to finish my episode, and take my fucking shower
 no, i dont. i just want to finish my episode.
 you showered
 okay, well, im enjoy cleaning. body and hair. extra time
 3 hour shower, [name]i had a 3 hour shower
 she has all over her face, she just had a bottle. she wants you to hold her
 well no, no give her a hug. hold her in a hug before she gets super upset
 ah, she doesnt want you to go
 daddy will be back
 he always comes back
 he got to make that cash flow
 i know
 he will be back
 ok
 i can try. i remember them laughing so long
 right
 yea, but i mean youve been there for the last 24 hours[inaudible]
 i hope so
 yea
 [laughing]thats funny
 alright, well[inaudible]
 um, [inaudible]
 [laughing]
 yes you are
 yes, and then i amits like a [inaudible]
 [laughing]is that why i got donuts?
 it worked[inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 oh
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 id [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 you want some cereal, [name]?
 i didnt, do you want some though?
 just scoot over, she always sits there. you know that. honey. [name], scoot over.
 eat your cereal, honey.
 what?
 because you never drink it.
 [inaudible] takes all day to drink that.
 honey. [name], i just made it.
 where is the [inaudible] at? no honey, i already made it. i cant put it back.
 i need a cigarette, where are they?
 wheres my purse?
 whats the matter? what are you doing in here? making blocks?
 hey, you cant wreck that. [coughs] [inaudible] boo boo? did you make a stinky? stinky? well go change your butt. go change your butt.
 [inaudible] yes, ive got one already.
 its chilly out here.
 you want to go back inside?
 [inaudible]
 powdered
 caramel apple.
 we cant eat it yet, okay?
 get up, [name].
 here [name] you can have a bag. is that all the bags?
 what are you doing? okay, lets keep going.
 [name], what are you doing?
 why is [name] stuck in the dark bathroom by herself? did you shut the door?
 yeah, thats unplugged. we unplugged it.
 that does not need to be in my bed either, okay?
 well, find something else.
 hi. dont shut that door. [name]. come on out. why do you keep slamming the door? you know you cant open it.
 do you want a strawberry?
 yeah.
 theres one.
 well, we could possibly do that, but in that case are we buying the trailer?
 it better be.
 the ones that are free [inaudible] the trailer.
 thats what it said in the ad.
 right.
 yeah.
 okay.
 um.
 right, [inaudible]
 [inaudible] credit. (laughs)
 right.
 mhm
 you think so?
 your experience. they usually have lower interest rates.
 stop [name].
 because [name] is going to get hit with that.
 i dont want you throwing that in the parking lot. okay?
 i know.
 she doesnt, hey. [name], she doesnt have to play tag if she doesnt want to.
 are your tights bothering you?
 oh.
 hello
 good, how are you?
 well see where they are. what kind of hat does he have? 
 well too late, he has a hat now. ill give him a feather
 so? princes wear feather hats.
 yes they do.
 and they have big fancy collars.
 its cups.
 for his um, shirt.
 you can draw those. hi.
 yeah youre right, i made his head kind of small.
 come here, ill be content [inaudible]
 yeah.
 because theyre probably hot.
 yeah.
 i poured coffee [inaudible]
 [inaudible] in my coffee.
 put a scoop of vanilla ice cream in there. [burps] excuse me. [inaudible] smash pie? smash pie.
 [name] this is not at all comfortable. this ones a little bumpy.
 come on honey. [name]. all right, ive got enough of that.
 no, theyre probably going to be like whats she doing to that poor kid
 no, im not going out right now.
 no.
 i dont think he wants to go, i told you its chilly outside.
 hi
 no.
 its alcohol.
 [inaudible]? thats powerade.
 [inaudible]
 dont fall down. just sit down.
 so they kept asking me what kind of brand, what kind of dressing i wanted. and i was like, cause they asked me if i wanted and sauce and i was like i want ranch, make sure theres a lot of ranch in there so they got the spicy chicken. they asked me like twice when i was at the window, do you need any other kinds of dip? and i was like just make sure theres a lot of ranch in there. they put five in my bag.
 [laughing]
 yeah. i like open the bag [inaudible]. and i was like yeah!
 [laughing]
 pintrest. pintrest knows. [laughing]
 so i brought frozen back to my dorm and twice this week [name] has had it on when i come back from class. [laughing]
 its so funny. i come in and im like what are you doing? shes like watching frozen.
 that was smart
 [laughing]
 it didnt help that i was addicted to buffalo chicken.
 you want to come listen to music with us?
 [laughing] its like a nub.
 and twenty years ago it was just the scraps. theres a market in that lets figure it out.
 uh like at that birthday party. that was so bad.
 that was after [name]s party.
 that buffalo chicken.
 oh that was horrible, oh man
 [inaudible]
 so actually what had to happen then was, we hosed it off, and then it took like days to vacuum, like wet vacuuming it out cuz this like foam just holds water. and it just happened to be at the first place that you could have ever bought it
 i pushed her off the couch, like get off the couch! and then she did it again
 like a baby bird, just threw up on anything
 did [name] take time to warm up to you last night?
 okay.
 im making progress with her too. she just started talking to me as soon as i got there.
 if i gave you a list of songs, john denver songs, can you make me a cd?
 i dont have any john denver songs. i listen to the pandora station.
 like my sticker? i dont really know where im going to put it. i think ill just hang it in my room.what are you doing? 
 im going to get a fleece from old navy and give it to you so you can take it to whats her face and get a logo on it. ok?
 yeah. okay?
 i need more logo stuff.
 wait, time out. oh, i thought that said seven forty-nine, i was like, what?
 um, im [inaudible] and um [inaudible]
 do you guys have milk?
 darnit.
 what? whatd you get? [inaudible]?
 yeah. [inaudible] inside? (laughs). i didnt really care what they were.
 oh my god they probably put jalapeo sauce in there. im not even going to risk it.
 no! (laughs)
 yeah.
 oh my god.
 rob lowe? he kind of looks like will from will and grace.
 will and grace.
 the tv show? [name] doesnt look too  [inaudible]
 [name]
 [name]
 turkey burgers and hamburgers. so i had a turkey burger.
 yeah.
 i like turkey bacon, so. its not the same thing at all, but. [sings along]. wheres the [inaudible] key? might want to grab my phone. 
 yeah, i just like push her butt. i usually just like push her butt. so that she kind of has to go by herself. and she is getting better each time. i want her to like, lay in there just because she wants to.
 youre supposed to say pen.
 i dont like the word cage.
 but its not really a crate, its a cage, its a pen. oh well. so i dont know where my keys are.
 oh okay. well you have to lock the door.
 they probably do.
 [sings along]
 if you could use your fucking turning signal that would be nice.
 oh my gosh, two seconds is what it takes for you to make that turn.
 thank you, for taking all fucking day
 how about... why the fuck did you go, because its not your turn. i had to slow the fuck down.
 [inaudible]
 i want to get a bigger ipod but i dont know. 
 yeah. they only make the xxxx, the 4 and 8. [inaudible] and then, um, the xxxx. i want a bigger one. [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 i wanted to get a bigger thing but also, ive got [inaudible] so like, when i got back to school, if i [inaudible] turns out to be xxxx especially [inaudible] enroll and everything. that would be [inaudible] school, and then i can just put like all my xxxx normal. i just, i need a small one for like work and xxxx. i like how xxxx in the car and i dont have to charge it.
 [inaudible] 
 because i tell you all the time. (laughs)
 you didnt even look at my [inaudible] 
 just like, yeah like that. (laughs)
 this is really weird.
 [inaudible] girl up there? and they like [inaudible]
 i dont know, its just weird. 
 i just think its stupid.
 [inaudible]
 oh!
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 yeah.
 wow! yep.
 where to now? something but like not something
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 i dont want it all in there, but like, a bunch.
 [inaudible]
 no (laughs)
 [inaudible]
 (laughs) why? what are you doing [name]?
 [inaudible]
 oh.
 [inaudible] (laughs) lets go.
 (laughs) well i cant [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 what do you want? oh.
 (laughs)
 [inaudible]
 no.
 nothing.
 they have broccoli.
 um, i dont know. i was trying to find their little side things but
 yep, i have.
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible] ice cream. [inaudible] lay in my bed and watch tv. [inaudible]
 what?
 who? 
 yeah, i think he went with [name].
 what time is it, [name]? probably about, what time is it? wait a minute, i think i got my phone on me.
 yeah i know i dont when you dont really give a shit about the time like me i dont even look let me see. its, so four oclock, yeah four-thirty, yeah. think im going to come back out six or seven or something. yeah, uh i just got out of this job anyway. im kind of in that lay down and relax mode.
 yeah. man, turn that light on right there, behind that tree, that lamp right there. see that lamp right there? its a little dot. its a little knob right there. lift that up and turn that knob. 
 yeah, um, um that lamp right there. youll feel it, its a little black knob. yeah, there you go.
 i know what youre saying.
 [inaudiable] show me what youre working with!
 i know exactly what youre saying, man. 
 i know.
 thats your prerogative.
 [inaudiable] at least drive the fuck home with your drunk-driving ass, under the influence ass, shit. 
 i know where you stay. i know exactly where you stay.
 yeah, but fucked up you can take the 19th bus back to your apartment back there. you can take the 19th. it goes, it cuts right through that 19th though.
 yeah, um it cuts through there then right by the apartment. if you are ever stuck somewhere, you take that motherfucker home and then itll drop you off right back by your shit. 
 yes. you can catch, you know what i mean, catch that 19th and bring your ass home, you know, itll drop you off right back at your apartment. 
 i know, um. 
 let people talk. ive been doing that and, like i said, most the people that are no longer, um, like in my life whether a friend or whatever, it wasnt my choice, it was their choice. you know what i mean? they think they wont  give him his money. fuck him, man, im not even going to go around him anymore, that way we dont have to pay it back. a lot of people out there [inaudible].
 [inaudiable] im going to be drunk by that time you know what im saying? so... and heres the thing, he wants me to be sober because he wants to get drunk. and he wants me to drive the [inaudiable] home. and hes talking about dropping [inaudible] at the corner.
 yeah. and im like [inaudible] im not ready to [inaudible]. you know what im saying? sometimes i really need the money, though, i really do. [inaudible]
 i might be broke and [inaudible] sometimes. [inaudible]
 my plates arent expired.
 yeah, you know what im saying, though. im not a [inaudible].
 [inaudible]. you know what im saying? im protecting myself. i know what i can do and [inaudible]. 
 i know whats out there on the street, uh. [inaudible] where i can afford to go and
 yeah.
 thats what im saying, bro.
 you get what im saying, though, bro? shit, i love this song right here. [inaudible]. you know what im saying? i mean, i like, uh, uh, [name] here, i, uh, uh, im not threading on anybody, but i [inaudible]. [inaudible] so bad yesterday.
 man, he used to be the man. [inaudible]. so, [inaudible].
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]. well, he [inaudible]. he, uh, is [inaudible]. so, he didnt get ten dollars from it. he doesnt have anything in his pocket. so, hes about to [inaudible]. he gave me eight dollars and his wife gave me two dollars so i could fill ten dollars of gas tank, right? [inaudible]
 huh?
 [inaudible]. is this your chili?
 is this your chili?
 [laughing] i was talking about the groceries. alright, its time to get rolling. 
 [inaudible] she gets out of bed, she is going to be ready to eat something.
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible] fucking marines.
 yeah, bring me one. yeah, bring me one.
 weak ass. get the fuck off your ass. kill these motherfuckers. [inaudible]. what up?
 oh, i was, uh, uh just doing my mental shit. i was doing my, uh thing.
 you can close the motherfucking door. you dont even got to trip, you know. it isnt nothing.
 fuck you looking for?
 a roach?
 yeah, a roach. hey, cut that light on right there when you close that door because im going to lose that light in the hallway. cut the light off. that way i can turn my shit up as loud and it dont interfere with you all. 
 alright, now close your door the hallway, that way you all wont hear my shit and i dont hear you all in case you turn the music up. close it all the way. isnt nothing on the door.
 yeah, okay.
 close the god damn door [name]!
 why the fuck cant you close the door when you walk out?
 it doesnt, uh.
 hey, for her, you know that blanket is kept in the hall closet on, you know, up on the clothes the one that i use in there for other people? yeah.
 youll be what?
 oh yeah, alright.
 [inaudible] matches. [inaudible].
 pooh bear?
 hey there [name]. hey. 
 you need help with that wheelchair. 
 alright.
 good gracious. whats that on her hair?
 what?
 wait. [inaudible]
 what?
 yep. [name]
 hmm? im hungry, thoughi dont know what [mumbles]
 how you doing?
 alright[slurred sounding] have you been doing any work or working for a while?
 sorry what was your name, [name]?
 im [name3]
 im about to head out [laughing]
 [name] in there? [name] in the back?
 ooh i packed the board. i packed it.
 are you [inaudible]?
 woh! jesus!...woh
 i know what i need to doi just gotta do it
 im gonna do it when i see the pastor again, when i see him this week
 [belch] scuse me
 no
 im gonna get you
 i do that all the time[laughing]
 [laughing]when did i close the door in your face?
 no
 [laughing]
 [laughing]
 mmhmm
 im listening to a recording deviceits not talking or nothing
 blessed be the man that walk [inaudible], nor standing in the way of standards, [inaudible][inaudible] law of the lord[inaudible] day and nightand he shall be like the streetslike the rivers and watershis lips[inaudible] and who ever shall do it shall prosper[inaudible] when he drives it away[inaudible] and the name of the ungodly shall perish
 [inaudible]black shirt
 black t-shirt
 dont start that crap
 [stops moving] [sighs]
 you [inausible]
 yea?
 huh?
 where were you last night?
 where were you last night?
 yea
 yea
 [inaudible][laughing]going to [inaudible]
 yea
 the one
 [laughing]
 yea
 that sounds like a police siren
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible][laughing]
 [laughing]
 [laughinghysterically]
 [laughing]
 probably raining out
 mmhmm
 uh, [inaudible]
 [mumble/whisper]  [inaudible]
 i, i thought these were all the [inaudible] that left me something
 youre not [inaudible]?
 your [ianduibel]
 you in [inaudible]?
 no
 well you werent there, you werent there with me yesterday
 [laughing]
 you having their lunch2 or 3to the second2
 youre going to stop1, 2, or 3thats of these circles on the cardboar- with 3 [inaudible]well that one dont got 3theres 2 in those1 morethere it isits the one in [inaudible]nows this next one is probably 100theres 1, 100theres 2, 100theres 3, 100..i knew itthey always do that, and they gave me 2 [inaudible] that i can buy1 for [inaudible], 1 for 100
 turn it oversays sign here[deep breathing]
 yea
 a carp-bass?
 i aint neither
 now i can believe that
 that makes sense on some of the carp out on the reservoir
 yea
 yea, 40 pounds is about that big
 no
 yea
 pay-lake?
 no, ive never heard of those
 man, theres some good fishing down in tennessee
 yea
 85, i think
 no
 pick it up, that [inauible] goes in that groove.
 laying downis it in?
 okay[inaudible]is that good?
 thats it?
 last [inaudible], want it? i cant even stand up
 oh, yea, thats right
 what?...
 smoking
 this will help slow it down some
 i cant use it
 because it messes with my lungs worse than cigarettes do
 no
 the [inaudible] gonna start eatin up in 2016.
 did you see her?
 i wonder what time the debate is on tonight
 yea
 well thats why debates are all about, thats why they call them debates
 yea
 good night, [name]good night, [name][name][groaning] ah my back, ah my shouldersah my back...
 my pants are falling down
 im having problems myself
 [yelling]two lungs[inaudible]
 go ahead and bring you out of it
 yea
 yea
 wouldnt surprise my [inaudible] if its on there
 because i just made that last weekhere you go
 next?
 monday
 at like 9
 itll make a sound, a short sound
 and after it does, you have to hit the button on top, slide the green bar over, and start your finger at the top of the phone to the bottom, and itll say text message on there, and thatll just be his reply when that comes upbe right backhold on[inaudible]watch this god dang, everything got to go behind this so you get two at a timehow many t-shirts do i have? ive got about 5 or 6
 it aint happeningcut it outstop talking
 challengingvery challengingenjoy, because i enjoy doing it longerno i do notoh, i know better[inaudible]come over here and pick me up, its 6 oclock[singing with radio]lying down i need to wash my sheets, but not tonight. theyre all bloody
 [sigh]
 red thoughmustve been thirsty
 come on, get off my leggot my butt wet sitting in the chair
 [inaudible] right there.
 yeah.
 who?
 oh, [inaudible].
 that was your brother.
 yeah, thats her step brother because i know [inaudible] when he was a little baby.
 [inaudible]
 my daughter?
 how is she doing? [inaudible]
 yeah.
 aw, look at [name]. hes going to see his mama.
 yeah, shes been dead.
 [inaudible]
 i want to do my hair. [inaudible] do it like she said i dont like it. i like my hair back for once.
 oh.
 [inaudible]. now, go get that other one.
 [inaudible]
 no, the single ones.
 then i said the first one you ever showed me. 
 hey, you need to go see [inaudible].
 hurry. [inaudible]. remember now?
 yes. did you all want the baby pictures or something?
 thats some bull crap. thats crazy.
 you know what?
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 [singing] dont want nobody else no, um, um [inaudible]. [talking] [inaudible] like that. its very attractive. i said something, honey. this is whats going down [laughing] for real.
 [inaudible] what you got on my head. [inaudible]. hold on, you want to leave me?
 [inaudible]. i need to make sure this thing is charged [inaudible]. yeah, we got to charge it up. lets straighten my bed up. this is ridiculous. 
 this is my boutique and my eyelashes.
 hell yeah, she can charge me four [inaudible].
 let it be like that [laughing]. 
  you look like smoke [laughing]. 
 im going out there half naked to that party, oh. im going to be in trouble.
 oh my god. he has got to be loud at everything.
 thats how you get it out. you got to be loud.
 oh, god.
 [inaudible]
 i dont know what
 it stinks so bad.
 hell no. 
 oh my goodness.
 yes.
 thank you.
 yep.
 ill take care of your ass. ill whoop your ass.
 well, were going to whoop each others ass.
 isnt no one whooping his ass.
 what kind of lotion is that?
 yes. its [name].
 [name]
 she got some good shit. [inaudible] on that ass. 
 were not staying all night with her.
 [inaudible]. you are blowing it. you have to be quiet.
 that isnt no anything. thats a beautiful woman. you got my booty fucked up.
 i told you, you did. [laughing]
 yeah.
 thats alright baby, let it rain.
 i mean, you know a lot of things [inaudible] now but let it do what it do. do us some good. its cooling off. we got the 70s coming up. [inaudible] going out of town this week. this week. 
 we came together. i live the other way. [inaudible]. step your game up! [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 whats going on?
 nobody is waiting on nobody. 
 you going my way?
 me too. hold up.
 [inaudible]
 you always let me do it and i bring it back.
 what?
 see, its all good though.
 yeah.
 yeah.
 [inaudible]
 yeah.
 girl, what the fuck you [inaudible] your hand for? 
 dont nobody tell me what to do but the driver. you do not look like the driver.
 only the driver can tell me something.
 oh, [inaudible]. hi. [inaudible] my damn back. [name]
 what?
 how the hell you going to do that?
 i dont see no more. i got you as close as i can get you. [inaudible]
 how much you say?
 what are you going to get you?
 okay.
 [clears throat]
 mmm hmm. 
 mmm hmm
 mm hmm
 thought they. i thought they 
 mmm hmm
 yeah [inaudible]
 hmm. [inaudible]
 huh. 
 yeah [name]
 [inaudible]
 hello. hello. hello. hello. 
 im [inaudible] you can sit down. im [inaudible] you can 
 if i cant get to the airport then im gonna have to [inaudible] you know. 
 i need a hundred dollars.
 nothing.
 i didnt do anything. [coughs]
 i dont know. 
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 i was thirsty. [inaudible]
 who? 
 ive gotta give something to you.
 tv tray. 
 [inaudible]
 [name] son. 
 i dont know. 
 mmm hmm. its good
 its good that [inaudible]
 [inaudible] right here.
 i know you call me something. the whole place is talking to me. i know you never talked to me before now. 
 [clears throat]
 yeah. yeah. hey. [giggles] [whispers are inaudible] 
 [sigh] 
 [whispering is inaudible] 
 [whispering is inaudible] 
 [inaudible] are you serious its almost over.
 [snoring]
 when, when. [clears throat]
 ok
 [clears throat] hmm. hmm. [sighs]. this pens mad now. [inaudible]. eat your lunch. [inaudible]. 
 stupid tell ya. dont worry. 
 and borrow. like i said im not paying dinner prices. were not gonna pay for much. thats all i can afford. i cant afford dinner prices. i can get to the clinic tuesday. i aint gonna sit there and not have a ride to the clinic because of her. oh she just tell me she aint going. id like to order me in some food today. be done with it. now she gonna wait to the very last and say i got called to go to work, [names] teeth fell out i gotta get her teeth put back in. oh no no no no no. she gonna fuck around and wait til eleven tomorrow and say i cant take you two work called me in on my day off . yeah she isnt rude. i dont even know why i bother. i dont know why i bother with anybody. i dont try to do anything for anybody cause nobody gives a damn. and i do mean that, they dont give a damn. 
 here. [sighs] 
 she playing stupid like a dumb bitch she is. shes an airhead. shes doing it to aggravate. i tell you what. what wait see what she says. im gonna fuck her up tomorrow shes gonna oh i woke up [inaudible] tomorrow [inaudible] im a ask her right i didnt get her message i didnt know we were suppose to go to lunch im gonna be the dumb bitch for a change. probably her bitching ass. been trying to set this up for three damn days. and she said yeah i though i had it smooth sailing for a fucking change. no not the day before she acting retarded. aint no place gonna open at dinner time. you retarded bitch. you work at [grocery store] you work at places that have lunch rushes dinner rushes breakfast rushes. but you dont know prices go up for dinner. how retarded. she say she stupid enough to pay that. that i just sit here see how she react to that. you want me to wait til thursday we dont have to pay that we dont have to pay an extra four dollars to eat dinner honey. lets see how she reacts to that. im gonna order me some chinese food. fuck that bitch. thats what im doing, im gonna order me some chinese food.  wonder how much it cost right now. on the weekends. never bought food on the weekends yet. hmm do very well. yeah. [inaudible] nah better wait and see what she says. see thats my problem, they know im stupid. she does all fucking hang on til the last second for blowing me off. like she always does. she aint no damn friend at all. acting retarded about going to lunch. i didnt know. whatever dumb bitch act like your sons failing school cause youre not helping him. he probably smarter than you but you got him convinced that you smarter than him. [sighs] i hate her sometimes. i hate the world sometimes when people you cant act or do. i get sick of it. i get tired of it. its just messed up. the worlds messed up. its all there is to it. gotta take the bad with the good. if you wanna call it good. theres no good its all bad. good is minor bad now. thats the way it is. come on [name] quit acting like the bitch you are. just say no youre not going and be done. i want me some food. quit aggravating me. getting on my nerves. 
 [inaudible]